                         The SlingPlayer iPhone app now works with 3G connections. STORY HIGHLIGHTS SlingPlayer announces its mobile video app will work on AT&amp;T's 3G network  Previously, the app, which plays TV on phones, used a Wi-Fi connection  The apps sells for $29.99 at Apple's online App Store
RELATED TOPICS


Apple iPhone

Sling Media Slingbox

AT&amp;amp;T Inc.

 (Mashable) -- Sling Media on Monday launched a new version of its SlingPlayer Mobile app for iPhone and iPod touch.  The company makes hardware and software to stream recorded or live video from your cable, satellite or DVR receiver to devices like your laptop or cell phone. The app can now stream video over AT&amp;T's 3G network; previously streaming was only possible on Wi-Fi connections. AT&amp;T announced that this was coming a couple of weeks ago, but the 3G version of the app on Monday was approved by Apple and has now appeared in in the App Store. The app costs $29.99, which is admittedly a little steep for an iPhone app. You'll also have to buy and install Sling Box hardware on your TV so the app will have something to communicate with. The result is the ability to watch from anywhere every show you can watch at home, whether the show is live or recorded. We think purchasing the app might be worth it, depending on your situation. For example, if you take a long daily commute on public transit, it might be worthwhile, but if you drive it's probably not since it would obviously be dangerous to try to use it while driving. Is SlingPlayer something you'd consider? Let us know your thoughts in the comments.&copy; 2010 MASHABLE.com. All rights reserved.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Tech
	
	
		
Apple computer for sale: only $160K!


From bomb maker wannabe to e-bike revolutionary


Narnia's 'Dawn Treader' sails enhanced e-book wave


	

  













		





