                       In a new home video, Jaycee Dugard thanks people for their support and says she is doing well. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Video shows Dugard baking cookies with her mother and playing with her dogs&quot;It's been a long haul, but I'm getting there,&quot; Dugard says Authorities: Dugard does not want to speak to her alleged abductor or his attorneys (CNN) -- Jaycee Dugard, who police say was kidnapped at 11 and held captive for 18 years, said she is &quot;doing well&quot; as she speaks out in a new home video. &quot;Hi, I'm Jaycee. I want to thank you for your support, and I'm doing well,&quot; Dugard says in the video released exclusively to ABC News, which posted excerpts of the video on its Web site Friday. &quot;It's been a long haul,&quot; said Dugard, &quot;but I'm getting there.&quot; The full statement and video, which show Dugard baking cookies with her mother and playing with her dogs, were scheduled to air on ABC News' &quot;20/20&quot; at 9 p.m. Friday. It's the first public statement from Dugard since the arrests of her suspected captors -- Phillip Garrido, 58, and his wife, Nancy, 54. The Garridos are charged with 29 felony counts in the kidnapping of Dugard, who was 11 when she was snatched from the street in front of her house in South Lake Tahoe, California.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Reaction to Dugard video

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Jaycee Dugard

Missing Children

Kidnapping


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



She was 29 when found in August at the Garridos' home in Antioch, California, about 120 miles from her home. Garrido, a registered sex offender on parole at the time of his arrest, is accused of fathering two daughters with Dugard during her captivity. Authorities say he and his wife held Dugard in a hidden compound behind their home for 18 years. The Garridos have pleaded not guilty. Dugard now lives in seclusion with her mother, Terry Probyn, and Dugard's two daughters. &quot;We released this video so that you can see that we are happy and well -- when we have more to share, we will,&quot; Probyn says in the home video. &quot;As a mother I am pleading for our privacy in this very public story.&quot; Authorities maintain Dugard does not want to speak to Garrido or his attorneys and have tried to keep her location a secret.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Justice
	
	
		
Police believe they have found remains of missing 10-year-old girl


Writings reveal mind of next man to be tried in Connecticut killings


Pennsylvania game warden killed after stopping vehicle


	

  













		





