
    
  
  

Watson Lives Up To His End Of The Bargain With&nbsp;Pacers
  


  
      by Tom Lewis on Apr 6, 2010 6:43 AM EDT  
  
  
    in Indiana Pacers News
  
  



  
  
    
      
      Tweet
    


      
    
    
  
    
       
     4 comments
      
  

   Email 
   Print

  
 






  


  
  
  Earl Watson turned down greener pastures last summer, but what will he do this summer?
Mike Wells compares Watson's situation to Jarrett Jack's situation last year at this time. Both point guards battled through a tough season to emerge as a strong leader impacting a positive end to the season. Like Jack, there's a lot to love about Watson. Aside from the way he's gone about his business all season and finally taken control of running the team with T.J. Ford sidelined, we also learn he's a man of his word.
As Wells reports, Watson had yet to officially sign with the Pacers when the Paul Pierce and the Celtics tried to lure Watson with the literally greener pastures of a role on a championship contending team. Watson stuck to his verbal agreement with the Pacers and has made the best of it ever since.
Watson adds his name to a list to what has become a long line of point guards brought in during the Jamaal Tinsley Era (hey, he's still on the cap so the JT era continues) to fill a desperate temporary need. At first the need was there with hopes that eventually Tinsley would get his health or stuff together. Now it's simply filling the void until the team can find a bona fide, franchise-settling point guard for the future.
Over the past five years, the Pacers have run an incredible number of point guards through the playing rotation.&nbsp; Check out the esteemed list after the jump, along with&nbsp;a couple more links of interest.
  
    
    
Of course, Jamaal Tinsley was in and out of the lineup for a few of those years but along with the Tin Man others seeing minutes at the point include: Anthony Johnson, Sarunas Jasikevicius, Eddie Gill, Darrell Armstrong, Orien Greene, Keith McLeod, Travis Diener, Flip Murray, Andre Owens, T.J. Ford, Jarrett Jack, Earl Watson and A.J. Price. When you include the point guard relief duty Marquis Daniels offered at various points in his tenure with the Pacers, that's 15 different players running the point in their own unique way with varying degrees of positive and negative aspects to their game.
Several fit the mold of journeyman back-up or third-string option (Jasikevicius, Gill, Greene, McLeod, Owens, Murray, Diener). Another group would rank as a great back-up option with strong leadership ability (Johnson, Armstrong, Jack, Watson). The kind of players every coach loves to have on his team, that can add value without the ball in his hands on and off the court.
Hanging onto those strong backup players is hard to do since their intangibles often fetch a salary exceeding their worth when salary cap dollars are tight. Plus, any strong-willed backup will be looking for more minutes or a chance at a ring if the money is similar. The Pacers lost Jarrett Jack last season when Toronto offered him a contract too rich for the Pacers to match.
After swapping starting roles for much of the season with T.J. Ford, an injury has put the starting role and bulk of the point guard minutes in Watson's hands for the past 12 games. The Pacers are 8-4 in those games with Watson averaging 8 points,&nbsp;7 assists and 2 steals. While Watson hasn't been spectacular, it's easy to argue his steady play has allowed varying players around him to provide the spectacular alongs with more wins than losses.
This summer, Earl Watson will likely leave in pursuit of a role on a winning team next season regardless of how much the Pacers want to bring him back. The only scenario for staying that Watson may consider is in a starting role which would be contingent on the Pacers trading T.J. Ford and then not drafting a point guard in the NBA draft.
But even with that last scenario, the Pacers wouldn't be smart to tie up too much money in a contract extension for Watson, so assuming the money is comparable with other offers, Watson will be looking for more wins next season and I can't say that I blame him.
Links:
Bird can't lose in Butler-Duke matchupBruno finds Larry Bird and Jim O'Brien looking forward to the Butler-Duke matchup last night.
Yahoo! Sports MinuteJosh McRoberts starred in the Yahoo! Sports Minute yesterday thanks to his highlight plays against Houston.
NBA Basketball Power Rankings - ESPNMarc Stein moves the Pacers up to 18 in his latest power rankings which is a good news, bad news situation.
  

  

  






  
      
      Tweet
    
  
  4 comments
  &nbsp;|&nbsp;
  
  
    	0 recs &nbsp;|&nbsp;
	

  
  
    
  




  

        




Do you like this story?

      
    




  
    
    
      More from Indy Cornrows
      
        
          IC Cold Links: Can The Pacers Find Time For&nbsp;Hansbrough? 
          Dec 2010 by Tom Lewis
            - 1 comment
        
      
        
          Celtics 99, Pacers 88: Pacers Off Target, Celtics Log 13-Straight&nbsp;Win 
          Dec 2010 by Tom Lewis
            - 4 comments
        
      
        
          IC Cold Links: Pacers in Boston taking on Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen and Paul&nbsp;Pierce 
          Dec 2010 by Rick Wagner
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          Pacers 108, Cavaliers 99: Indiana Earns Much Needed Win Against Struggling&nbsp;Cavs 
          Dec 2010 by Nathan S.
            - 1 comment
        
      
        
          Bulls 92,&nbsp;Pacers 73: Rose, Boozer Knock Out Pacers 
          Dec 2010 by Tom Lewis
            - 15 comments
        
      
        
          Pacers Hit Some Bumps In The Road Prepping For Chicago Bulls&nbsp;Tonight 
          Dec 2010 by Tom Lewis
            - 12 comments
        
      
    
    
    
    
      Around SB Nation
      
        
          Gilbert Arenas Tribute Day: Five numbers that showed Arenas'&nbsp;value 
          Dec 2010 from Bullets Forever
            - 6 comments
        
      
        
          Big 12 NBA Player of the Week For Week 7 - Paul&nbsp;Pierce 
          Dec 2010 from Big 12 Hoops
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          Paul Pierce Is Making This Look&nbsp;Easy 
          Dec 2010 from CelticsBlog
            - 13 comments
        
      
        
          Celtics Still Balanced in Rondo's&nbsp;Absence 
          Dec 2010 from CelticsBlog
            - 6 comments
        
      
        
          The Downbeat  - 17 December 2010 - #384 - The Baby Steps&nbsp;Edition 
          Dec 2010 from SLC Dunk
            - 21 comments
        
      
    
    
  




  
    Read More: Earl Watson (G - UTA), Jarrett Jack (G - NOH), Jamaal Tinsley (G - MEM), Darrell Armstrong (G - NJN), Anthony Johnson (G - ORL), Eddie Gill (G - MIL), Orien Greene (G - SAC), Keith McLeod (G - DAL), Andre Owens (G - IND), Travis Diener (G - POR), Marquis Daniels (F - BOS), T.J. Ford (G - IND), Sarunas Jasikevicius (G - GSW), Paul Pierce (F - BOS), A.J. Price (G - IND), Indiana Pacers, Boston Celtics
    


 
  
  
    Sign in with your Yahoo! ID
  
  
  Add Indy Cornrows to My Yahoo!
    




      
    















Comments

  
    Display:
    Expanded
Collapsed
    
    
    
  



  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      No need to keep Watson
    
    
      They just need to let him go. It would be wonderful if Bird could do something with Ford this summer, but that seems improbable. What a list of point guards during the Tinsley era. That has to be some of the worst point guard rotations in this decade of basketball. Although Anthony Johnson and Jack had their moments. Damn, we really could have used John Wall to end the atrocity of point guard Hell in Indiana.
      
        Indy Cornrows 
      
    
    
      by spstevenson on 
      
        
          
            Apr 6, 2010 12:35 PM EDT
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
    



  
    
    
      Can't forget...
    
    
      Kenny Anderson, who actually started 31 games during the 03-04 season that led to the conference finals.  I think he left because he was unhappy that he fell back behind Tinsley when he returned from injury.  Of course, we ended up needing Anderson against Detroit, if memory serves.
I always forget that Tim Hardaway played 10 games for the Pacers in 02-03.
Kevin Ollie, who had the assist on Reggie&#8217;s 40-footer against the Nets in 02.
And of course, you have Jalen Rose and Travis Best who manned the point after Mark Jackson first departed.
      
    
    
      by boombaby on 
      
        
          
            Apr 6, 2010 2:31 PM EDT
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      Definitely on board
    
    
      With letting Watson simply walk. What he brings to the team is what he brought to the team, and it&#8217;s certainly not going to change any going into 10-11. And since I don&#8217;t see T.J. going anywhere this summer, there&#8217;s no sense in carrying two short term pieces that eat up minutes from Price and any (hopefully young) PG (and hopefully) talent we may look at this summer.
Pacers need quite a bit, Earl Watson is not one of those needs. Might as well keep alive the identity of point guard chaos.
      
    
    
      by Nathan S. on 
      
        
          
            Apr 6, 2010 5:29 PM EDT
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      Goodbye Earl!
    
    
      No need for him anymore. He&#8217;s a poor man&#8217;s Jarrett Jack, and this summer we&#8217;ll end up signing a poor man&#8217;s Earl Watson. We&#8217;re only going to offer one year contracts to any of these free agents this summer so it&#8217;s going to limit the talent pool. Which is fine by me. Maybe then Jim O&#8217;Brien can&#8217;t screw up and start winning at the end of next season. Earl, please take O&#8217;Brien with you!!!!!
      
    
    
      by smits4ever on 
      
        
          
            Apr 6, 2010 6:26 PM EDT
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
  




  Comments For This Post Are Closed



  &uarr; Top of comments 
  &uarr; Top of page 
  
    &uarr; Stories 
  &uarr; Indy Cornrows
  
  &uarr; SB Nation
  

  
