 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	












NBA Awards Races


What makes a Rookie of the Year? Truth be told, it's often little more than a stats-grab, an award given to the newbie who tallies the most points or hands out the most assists. To gather the types of numbers that win, however, a rookie has to earn starter's minutes, which usually come with a team digging itself out of one lottery while headed to the next.  

Hence, Tyreke Evans gets the freedom to direct the Kings' offense, and Stephen Curry gets to play without having to make defense a priority in Golden State. 

Early in the season, Milwaukee's Brandon Jennings seemed destined for those sorts of numbers and freedom, until a playoff race and a coach who breathes defense intervened. So while Jennings' numbers have declined from the early-season marks that made him the favorite for rookie honors, he's received a lesson in leadership. It hasn't been pretty, though, as his 36.8 percent shooting attests, but it could help him become a more complete player. 

As for the short term, who gets the nod in the Rookie of the Year race this week -- Evans for his steady, across-the-board production, Curry for his recent dominance or Jennings for his guiding a playoff contender? Read on ...

(All stats and records are through March 2.)




&nbsp;










League MVP










</td>



LeBron James
F, Cleveland Cavaliers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

Previous Ranking: 1








PPG
RPG
APG

FG%



29.9
7.1
8.5
50.3











We'll let Stan Van Gundy handle this one. "LeBron is going to get the award. It's not going to be a close vote," the Magic coach told FanHouse. "All the players and coaches in the league know who is going to get the MVP." Well, settles that one. 















</td>



Kobe Bryant
G, Los Angeles Lakers&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

Previous Ranking: 3








PPG
RPG
APG

FG%


27.4
5.3
4.8

45.8





