                           Golf buddy: John Daly has welcomed Tiger Woods back to the fray for this week's Masters tournament at Augusta. STORY HIGHLIGHTSJohn Daly welcomes troubled No. 1 Tiger Woods back to the fray for this week's MastersWoods held his first post-scandal open news conference at Augusta on MondayDaly, who has had his own marital problems, said Woods did not need to apologize to mediaHe said Woods' toughest task would be off the course, keeping his family together  (CNN) -- Golf's original bad boy John Daly has welcomed Tiger Woods back to the fray for this week's Masters tournament, insisting that the troubled world No. 1 &quot;didn't kill anybody.&quot; On Monday, Woods gave his first open news conference since the scandal about his marital infidelities broke at the end of last November, fielding questions from the media for 40 minutes. The 43-year-old Daly, who has been married four times and has admitted his own problems with alcohol, gambling and his weight, said he was happy to see his fellow American ready to return to golf. &quot;He handled it very professionally. I just wish he'd handled it a lot earlier then he wouldn't have had to put up with all the crap he's had to put up with,&quot; Daly told CNN.  &quot;I wish him all the best. I've always said the toughest major he's got is keeping his family together, but it looks like they're doing it.&quot; Woods confirmed on Monday that his wife Elin would not be attending the tournament, which is the first of the season's four major events. Two-time major winner Daly will not be playing at Augusta after losing his PGA Tour card and slipping down to 641st in the world rankings, but was selling merchandise and signing autographs outside the front gates of Augusta while Woods was holding court inside. &quot;I was in the 12 Steps [for recovery from addiction], the eighth one is making amends to everyone you've hurt,&quot; Daly said.  &quot;He didn't have to do it with the media, but God bless him. It's tough what he's done, but the ones he needs to apologize to are the ones he has -- but he didn't have to do it to the media.  &quot;Everyone makes mistakes, I've made them, we're not the only ones who've made them. The true fans are going to come out and watch Tiger, they're used to seeing him win. That's what he's known for, is winning at golf, it's really none of our business what he does off the course.  &quot;The thing is, he didn't kill anybody, he didn't kill himself, there were no arrests or anything. Yeah he did some bad stuff, but that's between him and Elin, so I just wish him the best. We're just happy he's back.&quot; 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	




We recommend
I'm a better person after rehab, says Woods 


Woods to return to golf at Masters 


Tiger grants first post-scandal interviews 

  More Sport
	
	
		
Tevez makes u-turn over Manchester City future


Inter Milan coach Benitez on the brink of dismissal


South Africa claim 1-0 lead after crushing top-ranked India


	

  













		





