                    STORY HIGHLIGHTSFamous rapper Wyclef Jean admits being a fan of country musicHip hop and country 'have something tangible' people can identify with, he saysJean ascended into hip hop stardom in mid-1990s as member of the FugeesHe's produced a slew of hit solo projects and worked together with several music legends London, England (CNN) -- They may inhabit opposite ends of a record store, but hip-hop and country music are not that different after all, according to one of the most influential rappers of recent years. Wyclef Jean, the Grammy-winning singer and former member of hip-hop trio the Fugees, says that both music genres have &quot;something tangible&quot; that people can identify with. &quot;Country doesn't compromise the story for anyone, it tells things they way they really are -- 'my girlfriend done left me today and I'm drinking some Jack Daniels' -- that's what it is today,&quot; he told CNN. &quot;Hip-hop doesn't compromise things either, it's like 'this is the neighborhood, this is what's going on,'&quot; Jean continued. Describing Bob Dylan as &quot;one of the original rappers,&quot; Jean goes on to admit that country, along with hip hop and reggae, are his favorite kinds of music. Such remarks may fall flat with many hip-hop and country devotees, but are entirely in tune with Jean's lasting reputation of a mad scientist -- throughout his career he's been stepping into diverse musical territories and fusing different styles to create his eclectic sound. The son of a minister, Jean was born on the impoverished island of Haiti in October 1972. Growing up in a tough environment, he would often turn to music for comfort. &quot;I remember singing in the rain because it always made me escape what I was going through. When I got hungry I would go sing; when I got sad I'd go sing.&quot; At age nine, Jean moved to Brooklyn, New York, to reunite with his father who had gone to the U.S. to seek a better future for his family.  It was there, in his father's church, that Jean started flourishing as a music talent, developing a spirituality that has been fueling his repertoire ever since. &quot;My music career started inside a church, similar to Marvin Gaye. My whole entertainment swagger comes from the energy of the church,&quot; he said. In 1987, he hooked up with Prakazrel &quot;Pras&quot; Michel and Lauryn Hill to form a rap trio called Tranzlator Crew. A few years later, they changed their name to Fugees and in 1994 they released their first album, &quot;Blunted on Reality,&quot; which received mixed reviews.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					 My music sees no color, it just sees people -- the more we can unite, the better the world can be.--Wyclef Jean
 
				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Wyclef Jean

Hip-Hop Culture

Country Music

Haiti


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Their second album, 1996's &quot;The Score,&quot; was an instant hit and propelled them to hip-hop stardom.  It became one of the biggest-selling hip-hop albums of all time, selling more than 17 million albums worldwide, according to Rolling Stone, and earned the band two Grammy Awards. In 1997, Jean embarked on a solo career with the release of &quot;Wyclef Jean presents the Carnival Featuring the Refugee Allstars.&quot; The album, a brilliant fusion of sounds and styles, went multi-platinum and paved the way for Jean's subsequent career as a solo artist. One particular song, the Grammy-nominated &quot;Gone Till November,&quot; became a hit on both sides of the Atlantic. Its music video features a cameo appearance by Bob Dylan, a moment Jean cherishes to this day. &quot;This is one of the songs I'm most proud of -- having Bob Dylan showing up for the video. 'Gone Till November' is the blueprint to my career as a solo artist,&quot; Jean told CNN.  Since then, Jean has released a series of successful solo albums and deployed his songwriting, production and remixing talents for a diverse roster of artists. He is responsible for a slew of massive hits, including Santana's &quot;Maria Maria,&quot; Whitney Houston's &quot;My Love is Your Love&quot; and Shakira's &quot;Hips Don't Lie,&quot; while his long list of collaborators ranges from Mick Jagger and Celia Cruz to Serj Tankian and Kenny Rogers. Jean's new, self-titled album is slated for release this Spring. Having already dedicated his latest song, &quot;Hold On,&quot; to the people of earthquake-torn Haiti, it looks like the sensibility that has fueled his spirit since his early days will continue to come through in his music. &quot;As a student of Bob Marley, Jimi Hendrix, Bob Dylan and John Lennon, my message is universal love, that's what we have to strive for,&quot; he said. &quot;My music sees no color, it just sees people -- the more we can unite, the better the world can be.&quot;


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Wyclef Jean helping through 'Y&eacute;le Haiti' 


Malkovich: Being on stage makes me feel alive  


Piano superstar Lang Lang reveals early struggles  

  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Andrew Morton to write book about William, Kate's wedding


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


Box office: "Tron: Legacy" races to top with $43.6 million


	

  













		





