                       Reporters try out the iPad -- for sale on April 3 -- at Apple's January unveiling. STORY HIGHLIGHTS Company will take orders for the tablet-style computer starting March 12  Steve Jobs calls half-inch, 1.5 pound computer &quot;magical and revolutionary&quot;  iPad will be released in other countries in late April (CNN) -- Apple's eagerly anticipated iPad will be available in the United States on April 3, the company said Friday. Wi-Fi models of the tablet-style computer will go on sale that Saturday, while ones with Wi-Fi and 3G networks will be released later in the month. Customers can start pre-ordering the iPad on Apple's online store on March 12. &quot;iPad is something completely new,&quot; Apple CEO Steve Jobs said in a Friday post on the company's Web site. &quot;We're excited for customers to get their hands on this magical and revolutionary product and connect with their apps and content in a more intimate, intuitive and fun way than ever before.&quot; Unveiled on January 27, theiPad is designed to act as a sort of &quot;missing link&quot; between the smartphone and the laptop computer.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: iPad pros and cons

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Tablet Computers

Apple iPad

Personal Computers


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



It has a nearly 10-inch screen, runs existing apps from the Apple apps store and is available in 16-gigabyte, 32-gigabyte and 64-gigabyte versions. It's a half-inch thick and weighs a pound-and-a-half. Prices start at $499 for the 16-gigabyte version, $599 for the 32-gig version and $699 for the 64, Jobs said at the company's glitzy announcement in San Francisco, California. The iPad will be released in late April in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the UK, Apple said in the post on its site. Prices in those countries will be announced in April and iPad will ship in additional countries later this year.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Tech
	
	
		
Report: Google TV devices delayed as Google tweaks software


5 Web titans that withered under Yahoo


New 'Tron' shines glowing light on an arcade classic


	

  












		





