       STORY HIGHLIGHTSLindsey Vonn sustains a broken finger after crashing out in giant slalomThe American loses control midway through her opening run at WhistlerCzech Martina Sablikova win her third medal in the women's 5,000m speed skating (CNN)  -- American golden girl Lindsey Vonn sustained a broken finger after crashing out in the first leg of the women's giant slalom at Whistler on Wednesday. Vonn, who won gold in the downhill and bronze in the Super-G, lost control of her skies midway through her run and landed heavily on her left hip before ending up crumpled in the safety netting. It was later revealed she had broken the little finger on her right hand, leaving her participation in Friday's slalom in severe doubt. &quot;I'm disappointed with myself. I knew the snow was breaking up on the bottom. I got too much inside the gate then lost the outside ski,&quot; Vonn told the official Olympic Web site. &quot;I'll see how I feel and I'll make a call on the slalom on Thursday. I was hoping for a medal but it wasn't my day.&quot;   



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					 I'm disappointed with myself. I knew the snow was breaking up on the bottom. I got too much inside the gate then lost the outside ski.--Lindsey Vonn
 
				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Austrian Elisabeth Goergl led the way with a time of one minute 15.2 seconds, from France's Taina Barioz with another Austrian, Kathrin Zettel, lying in third position. However, with heavy fog settling down over the piste, organizers decided to delay running the second leg of the race until Thursday. Bobsleigh Canada won their seventh gold of the Games, equalling their best-ever performance in a Winter Olympics, when Kaillie Humphries and Heather Moyse took the gold in a women's race marred by two spectacular crashes. The host nation joined Germany and the United States on seven golds after victory in an event they had never previously won a medal in. And it proved a double delight for Canada, with their second bob of Helen Upperton and Shelly-Ann Brown winning the silver with bronze going to Erin Pac and Elana Meyers of the United States. However, only a dramatic crash on the 12th curve stopped the German pair of  Cathleen Martini and Romy Logsch from gaining a place on the podium. The spectacular incident saw brake woman Logsch catapulted out of the back of the bob, which slid down the track on its side after overturning. Luckily both women were uninjured in the accident, as were British pair Nicola Minichiello and Gillian Cooke who also overturned in the same place in their third run, meaning they did not start the fourth and final run. Speed skating Czech Martina Sablikova won her third medal of the Games with an impressive display to claim gold in the women's 5,000m. The 22-year-old had already helped herself to a gold in the 3,000m and a 1,500m bronze at the Richmond Olympic Oval. &quot;I was expecting it to be a tough race. I was happy I wasn't the first person so I could see the times. It's an amazing feeling to win gold,&quot; Sablikova told the official Olympic Web site.   Home favorite and defending Olympic champion Clara Hughes was forced to settle for the bronze medal this time around, behind Germany's Stephanie Beckert, who took the silver. It proved a fitting farewell for 37-year-old Hughes, who announced her retirement from the sport following the race. Short track There was drama in the final of the women's 3,000m relay, when defending champions Korea were disqualified from first place after impeding one of the Chinese competitors. Officials ruled that Kim Min-Jung blocked Sun Linlin's path with six laps to go, meaning China collected gold with Canada taking the silver and the bronze medal going to the United States. China, with 500m champion Wang Meng and 1,500m gold medalist Zhou Yang part of their team, recorded a new world record time of four minutes 06.61 seconds to end Korea's hold on a discipline they have won at every Olympic Games since 1994. Ice Hockey The United States reached the semifinals of the competition, where they will face either Finland or the Czech Republic, after two goals from Zach Parise gave them a 2-0 victory over Switzerland. Host nation Canada are also through to the last four after they thumped top seeds Russia 7-3 in one of the matches of the tournament -- gaining revenge for two successive world championship defeats at the hands of the Russians.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


2010 Winter Olympics

Vancouver

Alpine Skiing

Lindsey Vonn

Olympic Ice Hockey


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Corey Perry scored twice in the second period, while Ryan Getzlaf and Dan Boyle both had a goal and two assists for Canada -- who will now face either Slovakia or defending champions Sweden for a place in the final. Cross country Sweden made history on Wednesday by defeating much-fancied neighbors and rivals Norway to win the men's 4x10km relay gold for a record fifth time. The Swedish quartet of Daniel Richardsson, Johan Olsson, Anders Soedergren and Marcus Hellner came home nearly 16 seconds ahead of Norway, who have been the most successful nordic events nation in the Games so far. The Czech Republic foursome came home in bronze, a further 16 seconds back on the first two. &quot;We hoped that we could get away from Norway, that was our biggest goal today,&quot; Olsson told the official Olympic Web site.  &quot;It's a dream for all of us and I don't think we will really realize how amazing this is until we are back in Sweden to see it.&quot; 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
World champion Janka wins giant slalom 


Canadian pair claim ice dance gold medal 


Svindal edges Bode for super-G gold  

  More Sport
	
	
		
Tevez makes u-turn over Manchester City future


Inter Milan coach Benitez on the brink of dismissal


South Africa claim 1-0 lead after crushing top-ranked India


	

  



















		





