                         Jack Nicklaus believes that Tiger Woods will attempt to add to his 14 major victories ar next month's Masters. STORY HIGHLIGHTSJack Nicklaus believes Tiger Woods will return to golf in time to appear in The MastersWoods is still four wins short of Nicklaus' record of 18 major victoriesCaddie Steve Williams has spoken of Woods' troubles on New Zealand TV
RELATED TOPICS


Tiger Woods

Jack Nicklaus

The Masters

Augusta National Golf Club

 (CNN) -- All-time major record holder Jack Nicklaus believes that Tiger Woods will return to the golf course in time to appear in next month's Masters.  Woods, 34, has been out of the game since revelations about his private life were made public late last year but Nicklaus is of the opinion that his fellow- American will want to play at Augusta as he aims to add to his tally of 14 major victories. Speaking to the media before this week's Honda Classic PGA tournament, Nicklaus, who is four ahead of Woods with 18 major wins, said: &quot;It would surprise me if he didn't play at Augusta. My guess, as a golfer, is that he will want to. &quot;His personal life is his personal life. He is a professional golfer and he is a sensational golfer. He is a great athlete, and he'll figure out his own problems.&quot;  Meanwhile, Woods' caddie Steve Williams has told New Zealand's 60 Minutes program that he would have spoken out about the world number one's alleged affairs if he had known about them.  &quot;In some people's perception, I'm involved in it and I've committed a crime or I've done wrong,&quot; Williams said. &quot;The truth is I knew nothing of what was happening.&quot;  &quot;It's been the most difficult time of my life because every single person believed that I should know, or did know, or had something to do with it. &quot;If I had known something was going on, the whistle would have been blown. &quot;Of course I'm mad at him. I'm close with his wife  -- he's got two lovely children and he's let them down. But when a guy's having a tough time, it's not up to me to beat him with a stick.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Tiger Woods back home after counseling  


I had affairs and I cheated admits Woods 


Poulter defeats Casey in WGC final 

  More Sport
	
	
		
Twitter: Pacman to fight "Sugar" Shane Mosley next?


Tevez makes u-turn as Man City miss chance to go top


Inter Milan coach Benitez on the brink of dismissal


	

  
		





