






Judge allows Twitter into English, Welsh  courtrooms






In a nod to the digital age, a British judge ruled Monday that reporters may send messages to microblogging site Twitter from courts in England and Wales. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Salma Abdelaziz, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Foursquare adds photos and comments






Foursquare has added two heavily requested features to its popular iPhone app that should make the service significantly more social: photos and comments. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jennifer Van Grove, Mashable 
Filed under: Mobile

















Counter-terror spying











CNN's Brian Todd reports on controversial new technology and spying techniques used against crime and terrorism. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Innovation

















AOL snaps up About.me four days after launch&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Just four days after it threw its doors open to the public, hot personal-dashboard startup About.me is already off the market. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Laurie Segall, CNNMoney staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















New iPhone app translates foreign-language signs






Augmented-reality applications have promised to revolutionize the way we live on-the-go with our smartphones, but none have fully delivered yet. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















As valuations soar, tech field starts feeling bubbly&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



On any given day at Grey Dog, a small restaurant in downtown New York, you'll find clusters of engineers and entrepreneurs crowded around tiny wooden tables discussing their startups' latest creations. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Laurie Segall, staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















Bitter 'Julian Assange' tweaks Zuckerberg on 'SNL'






The Web's controversy du jour found its way onto "Saturday Night Live" this weekend, with a fictional Julian Assange complaining that his work with WikiLeaks should have made him, not Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, Time magazine's Person of the Year. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Mark Zuckerberg: The temptation of Facebook's CEO - Full version&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Editor's note: This week FORTUNE is publishing excerpts from its favorite business books of 2010. We start with author David Kirkpatrick's book from May, about, as it turns out, TIME's 2010 Person of the Year. Check back each day this week for anothe&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Kirkpatrick, contributor Filed under: Tech Biz

















Mark Zuckerberg: The temptation of Facebook's CEO&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Editor's note: This week FORTUNE is publishing excerpts from its favorite business books of 2010. We start with author David Kirkpatrick's book from May, about, as it turns out, TIME's 2010 Person of the Year. Check back each day this week for anothe&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Kirkpatrick, contributor Filed under: Tech Biz

















5 Web titans that withered under Yahoo






For King Midas, as the Greek legend goes, everything he touches turns to gold. Yahoo's stroke is decidedly less effective. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Web

















The Nativity story, as told through social media






From elementary-school plays to plastic Joseph and Mary figures on lawns, the holiday season brings all kinds of re-enactments of the birth of Jesus. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Eric Marrapodi, CNN and Damon Brown, Special to CNN Filed under: Web

















'Tron: Evolution' is a time bridge that sometimes sticks in a loop






"Tron: Evolution" tries to bridge the time gap between the classic movie and the new version, but it sometimes lets gameplay and combat fall into a time loop that is exciting but repetitive. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Larry Frum, Special to CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Yahoo targets Buzz, AltaVista, Delicious for death&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Days after cutting its global workforce by 4%, Yahoo turned the axe on its product portfolio. Yahoo said Friday that it is killing Buzz, a two-year-old experiment in community news curation. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Julianne Pepitone, staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















Hewlett-Packard: The biggest dog of the Dow&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Software sultan Oracle reported strong quarterly results Thursday, lifting its already hot stock up another 6% Friday. For shareholders of Hewlett-Packard, it's a painful reminder of the good old days. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Paul R. La Monica, assistant managing editor Filed under: Tech Biz

















Age no longer much of a digital dividing line, says Pew






It's often assumed that older people generally aren't very digitally savvy -- but new research from Pew indicates that older people are becoming about as skilled online as younger ones. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Geek-tastic gifts











CNN's Kristie Lu Stout brings you some of the best gift ideas for the geek on your shopping list. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Web

















Why we still can't watch live TV online






What's the difference between the big screen in your living room, the smaller screen on your laptop or the tiny one in your pocket? FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Web

















Social media fueled UK student protests











CNN's Erin McLaughlin reports on how social media worked behind the scenes during mass UK student protests. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Social Media

















How the iPad changed 2010






Less than a year ago, some technology pundits questioned whether Apple's "iTablet" would find any buyers. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Pete Cashmore, Special to CNN Filed under: Social Media

















In pitch switch, investors try to woo startups&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



More than 150 tech veterans and aspiring entrepreneurs gathered Wednesday night at AOL's offices to witness an unusual sight: Venture capitalists explaining to startups why founders should pick their fund to work with. Those with the ideas usually&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Laurie Segall, CNNMoney staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















Report: One-third of US youth have smartphones






Young people around the world love their cell phones -- and a new Nielsen report sheds light on which phones they're using, how they choose their phones, and how they use them. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Nexus S makes its debut, but can it avoid the Nexus One's fate?






The second generation of the Google Phone, better known as the Nexus S, officially went on sale Thursday in Best Buy stores across the United States. Is its presence in a major retail chain enough to avoid the sad fate of its predecessor, the Nexus One? FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Ben Parr, Mashable 
Filed under: Mobile

















New 'Tron' shines glowing light on an arcade classic






Long before Lara Croft raided tombs and Jake Gyllenhaal became the prince of Persia, there was "Tron." FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















New Facebook features exposed in accidental update






Facebook accidentally went live with a handful of prototype features earlier today, including a site-wide yet short-lived overhaul of Pages. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jennifer Van Grove, Mashable 
Filed under: Social Media

















Electric cars good for Indiana











Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels believes that manufacturing electric cars will be a very large industry in his state. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: WRTV Filed under: Innovation

















Herding Firesheep in Starbucks&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Gary LosHuertos is a New York City-based software engineer. A version of this essay first appeared in his blog, Technology Sufficiently Advanced. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Gary LosHuertos, CNNMoney guest columnist Filed under: Tech Biz

















Obama administration calls for online privacy bill of rights&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



The Obama administration on Thursday unveiled a proposed new framework for protecting consumers' privacy online. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Goldman, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















10 ways a digital Big Brother can be good for you



The opening passage from George Orwell's "1984" depicts a guy hustling up a stairwell that's plastered with giant posters of a man's face staring at him. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Facebook brings facial recognition to photo tagging






Facebook Photos, one of the social network's most popular features, is getting a big and potentially controversial upgrade with a new feature that automatically suggests who users should tag in photos based on facial recognition technology. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Ben Parr, Mashable 
Filed under: Social Media

















Bing battles Google with prettiness






Microsoft showed off a host of visual and search enhancements to its search engine Bing Wednesday, in hopes that better packaging will help it eat away at Google's online dominance. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Ryan Singel, WIRED Filed under: Web

















Web cheers, jeers Zuckerberg's Time magazine nod






Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is Time magazine's Person of the Year, and, predictably, the internet has some thoughts about it. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Keep your tech-gift promises this holiday






As Santa busily sorts the naughty from the nice in a kind of seasonal secular judgment day, it's time to think back on all the promises you broke this year. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Andrea Bartz and Brenna Ehrlich, Special to CNN Filed under: Web

















Online sharing: The rock 'n' roll of the digital generation?






The story has become a clich&eacute; when talk turns to young people and the internet: FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Time-lapse aging videos buzz across the internet






Talk about planned parenting. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Damon Brown, Special to CNN Filed under: Web

















Tech-toy gifts for kids (young and old)






While your 8-year-old might not be coding websites or whizzing through Excel spreadsheets just yet, it's not too soon to get him or her a tech-driven gift this holiday season. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Rachel Goff, Special to CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















How to spot hidden cameras











CNN's Josh Levs shows how to spot hidden cameras disguised as everyday objects. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Online WikiLeaks game is a hit






A computer-game parody of the much-talked-about WikiLeaks saga has made a splash online. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















China dotcom giant launches English language service






Tencent, the world's third largest Internet company by market share, launched its popular instant messenger service in English, Japanese and French. FULL&nbsp;STORY






Filed under: Social Media

















Facebook's influence











TIME Magazine named Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg "Person of the Year." CNN's Mary Snow reports on the decision. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Artists reimagine Facebook's new profile pages






Facebook unveiled a redesign of its profile pages earlier this month that rearranged users' personal info and photos into a streamlined layout. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Facebook enters e-mail game











Does Facebook's foray into e-mail fundamentally change how we use e-mail? And will it make e-mails shorter? FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Web

















Multiple Gmail accounts just got a lot easier to manage






Google's announced yet another awesome Gmail feature today. Called e-mail delegation, the feature will allow you to easily manage multiple Gmail accounts without signing in and out of Gmail and switching accounts manually. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jolie O'Dell, Mashable 
Filed under: Web

















The present and future of the mobile workforce






Mobile devices are shaking up the field of business and institutional information technology in a huge way. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Mobile video getting popular, but TV still rules






When smartphones first came out, many people wondered whether a TV-addicted culture would care to watch video on such a small screen. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















LinkedIn's top 10 overused r&eacute;sum&eacute; phrases






With national unemployment at 9.8 percent, Americans are looking for ways to make their job applications stand out. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Web










