FROM CNN&#039;s Jack Cafferty:
Finally some good news for Detroit. With Toyota recalling more than eight million vehicles worldwide - a new poll out suggests that fewer Americans are set on buying foreign cars.






The Gallup Poll shows just six percent of those surveyed say they would only consider foreign brands when buying a car. That number is down from 15 percent in December 2008, when the government first considered a bailout of the U.S. auto industry.
Meanwhile the percentage of people who would consider only American cars stands at 36 percent.
Young adults represent the biggest drop in a preference for foreign cars. 18-to-34-year-olds used to be the most likely to say they would only buy foreign cars. Also young adults are now much more likely to say they would only consider American brands. And that&#039;s a good sign for the so-called Big 3 American car manufacturers - since these people will be buying cars for many years to come.
The Gallup poll also finds older adults are the most loyal to U.S. car companies.
There could be many reasons why people are less interested in buying foreign cars these days - from safety issues at Toyota to a renewed support for American makes after the bailout.
But whatever is behind the trend, new car sales at Ford, Chrysler and GM were all up last month compared to a year ago - when the industry was on the brink of collapse.
Here’s my question to you: In light of the Toyota scandal, are you less likely to buy a foreign car?
Interested to know which ones made it on air? 

Jon in Philadelphia writes:
I only own a Lexus now because at the time I needed a car it was the best deal in town. Without a doubt, my next car will be American. Toyota has shown such arrogance and disregard for their customers that they deserve to take a butt-whipping in sales. They did exactly what got U.S. carmakers in trouble. They got fat and lazy and forgot that they needed customers to remain in business.
Jim in San Bruno, California writes:
Jack, I am 53 and had only American cars prior to my 2008 Prius. I love my Prius and would never buy another American car ever, based on how much trouble I had with them.  Also, I think there is an organized effort to Toyota-bash in this country.
Andrew writes:
Jack, I am absolutely not less likely to buy foreign cars. This recall is probably going to be a great thing for the consumer as a whole. It will cause Toyota to re-evaluate their product and retool to build a better vehicle and rebuild confidence. In the short term, this means the consumer wins with lower prices and in the long term the consumer wins with a better product.
Trish writes:
I think generalizing to all foreign cars is silly. Am I less likely to buy a Toyota? Definitely. But am I less likely to buy from other foreign brands, like BMW or Nissan? No, my opinion of them is based solely on their performance history.
Reggie writes:
My 14-year-old Toyota Camry with 240,000 miles runs pretty well and the maintenance costs have been reasonable. I&#039;ll have to find a friend with a GM, Ford or Chrysler who has as good or better experience before I want to change.
Pete writes:
I&#039;d rather buy a Toyota built in the U.S. than a Ford built in Mexico.

Filed under: Toyota recall



