
    
  
  

It's Big Ten Tournament Week, and SBN has got this locked&nbsp;down.
  


  
      by Joe Kutsunis on Mar 9, 2010 4:51 PM CST  
  
  
  



  
  
    
      
      Tweet
    


      
    
    
  
    
       
     1 comment
      
  

   Email 
   Print

  
 






  


  
  
  It has been a busy week for me,&nbsp; but not so busy that I have forgotten the good people of the blogosphere. You know we wouldn't leave you hanging for the culmination of the Big Ten conference season right?
Anyway here is a bit of a preview of what you can expect from Hail to the Orange and the SB Nation mothership once this whole thing gets underway.

Travis Miller, friend of the blog and fellow SB Nationalist at the Purdue devoted Hammer and Rails has the duties of head honcho for all of our coverage. In fact he already has a preview and stream up at the mothership which will be constantly updated all weekend. 
Starting Friday, I will be covering all of the games along with Travis, getting post game quotes and audio and generally trying to impress any prospective employers with my professionalism. Please pay me.
I will of course be running the openthread and doing pre and post game posts for the Illini games (possibly plural, keep hope alive America!) and will do my best to get you the&nbsp; most complete Illini coverage for tournament overall. Did Mike Davis have too much soda at lunch? Will this have an effect on his play? I want you to know!
Tomorrow night we will still be doing the podcast, although this time I will be by remote, so expect it to be just as unfocused as always. Hopefully if it goes well I will be able to check in at night on Thursday, Friday and Saturday to give day by day recaps.
And of course I will be there on the twitters, with the twitpics and the facebooks and morsecodes, trying to get as much coverage to you as humanly possible, because who knows how much more basketball we even have to look forward to?

  

  

  






  
      
      Tweet
    
  
  1 comment
  &nbsp;|&nbsp;
  
  
    	0 recs &nbsp;|&nbsp;
	

  
  
    
  




  

        




Do you like this story?

      
    







  
    Read More: Illinois Fighting Illini, Illinois Fighting Illini at Wisconsin Badgers, Mar 12, 2010 1:25 PM CST
    


 
  
  
    Sign in with your Yahoo! ID
  
  
  Add Hail to the Orange to My Yahoo!
    




      
    















Comments

  
    Display:
    Expanded
Collapsed
    
    
    
  



  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      It's like Big Ten Football Media Day on crack!
    
    
      Kick some ass, Joe.
      
        "Procrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday." -- Don Marquis
The Bluenote Zone - Because you KNOW you want to know more about the St. Louis Blues! 
      
    
    
      by Donut King on 
      
        
          
            Mar 10, 2010 2:40 PM CST
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
  




  Comments For This Post Are Closed



  &uarr; Top of comments 
  &uarr; Top of page 
  
    &uarr; Stories 
  &uarr; Hail to the Orange
  
  &uarr; SB Nation
  

  
