
    
  
  

Post-Senior Night Boilermakings&nbsp;3/3
  


  
      by TelePunk5 on Mar 3, 2010 11:34 PM EST  
  
  
    in Boilermakings and other Purdue sports
  
  



  
  
    
      
      Tweet
    


      
    
    
  
    
       
     3 comments
      
  

   Email 
   Print

  
 






  


  
  
  Normally, I would have filled this post with lots of trash talk about Indiana, and several jokes about how terrible they are (see my Twitter feed for a few favorites). However, tonight a few of my favorite Boilermakers were playing their last home game, and that is far more important than making jokes about yet another in a long and pathetic string of Hoosier losses. Tonight was the last time Keaton Grant, Chris Kramer, and Mark Wohlford will play on Keady Court. No more Kramer moments, no more clutch 3 pointers from KG, and no more Wolfpack. It is definitely a dark day for the Purdue nation, made only slightly brighter by the inept performance of the Hoosiers. Alright, a lot brighter, but still all of us are sad to see the seniors leaving. This is the first milestone on the road to the last time we get to see this group play together. Next is the last game of the regular season at Penn State, then the last Big Ten Tournament, and finally the last March Madness and the last game of the tournament (you know, the national title). I'm sure Travis and I will be writing more about the seniors in the near future, but I just want to thank them for the home-court memories and a great four years of basketball. They will definitely be missed, and I hope they accomplish all of their goals for this season, and going forward after basketball.
I have to say, I have never wanted a shot to drop so badly in my life than when Mark Wohlford played for a few minutes near the end of the game. The entire building was pulling for you Mark. Also, thanks to IU for having not one but two players foul out. Anytime I get to do the "left right left right" cheer is a time I cherish. I'm going to miss being in the Gene Pool/Paint Crew. Some of my best memories of Purdue have been standing in that building yelling myself hoarse. I'll find a way to sneak in as grad student, mark my words. I've seen a few classes leave on senior night *cough six cough*, and, just like Painter said in his postgame speech, it really does seem like yesterday when Grant and Kramer were freshman starting with Landry and Teague. You could tell even then that they were destined for great things, and they delivered in spades.
Now that I have made myself feel old, let's get to the Boilermakings.

  
    
    Football;
Big Ten Combine Wrap-upDavid Pender had a pretty good combine.
Brees gets a Super Perk; Golf with Jack NicklausIt's good to be the king.
Former Purdue CB David Pender Hopes Speed Will Carry Him To NFLFormer Purdue cornerback David Pender is known for his speed and his ability to deflect passes and he hopes to improve his speed as he gets ready for the NFL.
Merrillville Grad Concludes Workouts at NFL Scouting CombineMike Neal helped himself out by putting up some impressive numbers at the combine.
Mike Neal&nbsp;|&nbsp;Purdue,&nbsp;DT&nbsp;:&nbsp;2010 NFL Draft Scout Player ProfileMore on Mike Neal.
Basketball;
Seniors Reflect on Time at PurdueThe Exponent interviews Wohlford, Kramer, and Grant about their time as a Boilermaker.
Purdue Seniors Grant, Kramer Gain Inspiration from 'Titans' CharactersThe Indy Star talks with Grant and Kramer about how "Remember the Titans" affects them.
Final Home Game Bittersweet for Purdue SeniorsMatt Painter will maintain a special place in his heart for Chris Kramer and Keaton Grant, who will play their final game in Mackey Arena tonight when seventh-ranked Purdue battles Indiana.
Kramer Reflects on Becoming Steals LeaderThe Fort Wayne Journal Gazette interviews Kramer about passing Brian Cardinal for the all time career steals record at Purdue.
Purdue, IU Nab Big Ten HonorsDefense lives here for the ladies too.
Other Boilermakings;
Purdue Pete's Child-Terrorizing Days Are NumberedDeadspin on the possible Purdue Pete redesign.
West Virginia Outlasts Purdue18-14. That is not a football score, it's baseball. If I worked for ESPN, I'd make a Big Ten Basketball joke, but I'm smarter than that.
Purdue Instructor Receives National Pfizer Teaching AwardDr. Larry Adams of the Purdue University School of Veterinary Medicine has been chosen to receive the 2009 national Pfizer Teaching Award, the most prestigious veterinary teaching award in the United States.
Have a great week, and let's end the regular season on a positive note with a share of the Big Ten title. Go Boilers!
  

  

  






  
      
      Tweet
    
  
  3 comments
  &nbsp;|&nbsp;
  
  
    	0 recs &nbsp;|&nbsp;
	

  
  
    
  




  

        




Do you like this story?

      
    




  
    
    
      More from Hammer and Rails
      
        
          Know thy Opponent: Virginia Tech&nbsp;Hokies 
          Nov 2010 by BoilerTMill
            - 26 comments
        
      
        
          The Red Button&nbsp;Strikes 
          Nov 2010 by BoilerTMill
            - 6 comments
        
      
        
          Purdue Optimist Club:  The&nbsp;Dunkscapades 
          Nov 2010 by JordanLegend
            - 7 comments
        
      
        
          Purdue Breaks Ground Against&nbsp;Howard 
          Nov 2010 by Purdue_Pete
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          0 Days Until Purdue Basketball: Terone&nbsp;Johnson 
          Nov 2010 by Purdue_Pete
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          2&nbsp;Days to Purdue Basketball: Bubba Day 
          Nov 2010 by BoilerTMill
            - 0 comments
        
      
    
    
    
    
      Around SB Nation
      
        
          Shurna shines again as Northwestern cruises past Long&nbsp;Island 
          Dec 2010 from Sippin' On Purple
            - 14 comments
        
      
        
          Big "Pe'Shot" Saves Maryland  
          Nov 2010 from Searching for Billy Edelin
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          Big Ten basketball previews: Purdue&nbsp;Boilermakers 
          Nov 2010 from Sippin' On Purple
            - 0 comments
        
      
        
          NBA Opening Night Rosters: Who Made Them And Who&nbsp;Didn't? 
          Oct 2010 from Ridiculous Upside
            - 2 comments
        
      
        
          IC Cold Links: Hibbert Comes Back Strong In Pacers&nbsp;Win 
          Oct 2010 from Indy Cornrows
            - 2 comments
        
      
    
    
  




  
    Read More: Chris Kramer (G - Purdue), Keaton Grant (G - Purdue), Mark Wohlford (G - Purdue), Purdue Boilermakers
    


 
  
  
    Sign in with your Yahoo! ID
  
  
  Add Hammer and Rails to My Yahoo!
    




      
    















Comments

  
    Display:
    Expanded
Collapsed
    
    
    
  



  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      My first thought on the New Pete
    
    
      was that he will likely end up like the Mountaineer at West Virginia, just a guy with a hard hat and the hammer. What do you guys think will happen?
      
        It's a trick, get an ax 
      
    
    
      by tiptonian on 
      
        
          
            Mar 4, 2010 10:56 AM EST
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  



  
    
        
    
    
      That sounds awful
    
    
      I hope Pete just stays the same. I mean, I don&#8217;t see a lot of kids being scared of Pete, they seem to like him. Then again, little kids are afraid of everything, so who knows. I found that out working as a mascot at one point in my life. I am about 6&#8217; 5&quot; tall, and wearing mascot headgear that translates to well north of 7 feet tall or more depending on the costume. I don&#8217;t care how friendly looking the critter costume you are donning is, at that size, I made everything under the age of 4 instantly start crying. My boss mercifully cut that shift very short.
      
        Hammer and Rails
The only Purdue blog at that web address. 
      
    
    
      by TelePunk5 on 
      
        
          
            Mar 4, 2010 4:24 PM EST
          
        
      
      
      
        up
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  




  
    



  
    
        
    
    
      You know you feel old...
    
    
      &#8230;when you see someone considerably younger than you have a good good reason for feeling old.
Meta-oldness ftw.
Oh, and LEFT RIGHT is a great cheer. The key is of course to quiet down when Purdue&#8217;s at the line&#8212;I still remember the NIT elite 8 game against Alabama pre-Paint Crew/Gene Pool where the students didn&#8217;t quiet down, and Adam Wetzel missed a FT in overtime. Purdue lost in double overtime.
      
    
    
      by Beavis Beefcake on 
      
        
          
            Mar 4, 2010 1:07 PM EST
          
        
      
      
      
      reply
        
        
          actions
        
        &nbsp; 
          
        
      
    
  
  
  


  
  




  Comments For This Post Are Closed



  &uarr; Top of comments 
  &uarr; Top of page 
  
    &uarr; Stories 
  &uarr; Hammer and Rails
  
  &uarr; SB Nation
  

  
