 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


                                                                Big Ten    Thursday, March 11-Sunday, March 14 (Conseco Fieldhouse, Indianapolis, Ind.)      The pick: Flip a couple of coins and go with Ohio State, although Michigan State could have the semifinal break of drawing hobbled Purdue. With Evan Turner, the Buckeyes have been the most consistently good team in the league. Any of the top four could win it, though, with a couple of good days.      Darkhorse: There's no real evidence any outsider can win this. While teamrankings.com gives &quot;the field&quot; a six percent chance of taking the auto bid, that actually feels high.      Deep sleeper(s): None, unless you want to consider Penn State beating Minnesota in the 6-11 game as a sleeper pick. The Nittany Lions have been flat-out unlucky statistically this season.      Player(s) to watch: The notables are very notable ... Ohio State's Evan Turner, Michigan State's Kalin Lucas, Purdue's Robbie Hummel ... oh wait. Make that Purdue's E'Twaun Moore, Illinois' Demitri McCamey and Wisconsin's Trevon Hughes and Jon Leuer. It will be very interesting to see how Illinois and McCamey come out after Sunday's sideline tempest with coach Bruce Weber.      Bubble/bracket games of note: Illinois now almost certainly has to win its quarterfinal against Wisconsin to make the NCAAs. Minnesota may need the auto bid, but the Gophers need to at least make the final. Ohio State is in play for the final 1-seed in the NCAAs. Purdue is looking to impress and hold on to a high seed without Hummel. Michigan State and Wisconsin are jousting for seeding and potential placement in the Milwaukee subregional.  Pac-10    Wednesday, March 10-Saturday, March 13 (Staples Center, Los Angeles, Calif.)      The pick: Washington. There will be upsets in some of these events, so why not roll the dice on the Huskies, who are peaking at the right time in a league where no one has stood out all season. They just won three in a row on the road to improve their mood away from Hec Ed. They also have the second best efficiency margin in league play (+0.08 PPP) after Cal's +0.12.      Darkhorse: It would have been USC, but the Trojans are not eligible. From the remaining options, what about Arizona? The Wildcats are fourth in the league in PPP margin and beat Washington and Cal at home this season.      Deep sleeper(s): Can't get much deeper (or more asleep) than Washington State, which somehow managed to fade to a last-place finish. That said, Washington State certainly can get past Oregon in the 8-9 game and that would put the Cougars against Cal, a team they have played very tough twice this season. An upset there, and the Arizona-UCLA winner is in the soft side of the semis. Stranger things have happened...      Player(s) to watch: If Wazzu makes any noise, it will be because of Klay Thompson. Cal's Jerome Randle and Washington's Quincy Pondexter are obvious stars. The biggest X-factor may be Arizona State's Rihards Kuksiks, who can explode from the arc on occasion. He dropped 27 on Washington earlier this season, but struggled badly in both Cal games.      Bubble/bracket games of note: The potential Arizona State-Washington semifinal is an NCAA elimination bout. The winner of that game will have to see where things stand and who the final opponent is to gauge the chances of an at-large with a title-game loss. Cal would be wise to keep winning, as well. No one should be higher than an 8- or 9-seed in the NCAAs. See SEC 2009, but worse.  SEC    Thursday, March 11-Sunday, March 14 (Bridgestone Arena, Nashville, Tenn.)      The pick: If actual money was at stake, Kentucky's the choice. For the sake of something different, take Vanderbilt. Vandy has the far easier draw, staying away from Tennessee and Mississippi in addition to being on the other side from Kentucky. Also, the tournament is in Nashville. Vandy lost by a deuce at home to Kentucky a couple weeks ago, so the 'Dores know they can play with the Cats.      Darkhorse: From a quality standpoint, it's Mississippi, which quietly has found some form and has the guard play to make things very difficult on you. The Rebels went 0-4 against the top of the East division, but the losses were by two (in OT), three, four and 10.      Unfortunately, Ole Miss has a really rough draw, starting with a possible quarterfinal against Tennessee, so the team poised to make more noise may be Florida. Yes, the Gators easily could find a way to lose their first-round game, but they're drawn with Mississippi State in the quarters and then potentially Vandy instead of Tennessee or Kentucky in the semis.      Deep sleeper: Not sure there's really one here, but rolling the dice with Arkansas making a hailstorm of 3s for a weekend isn't the worst choice. The Hogs also are on the weaker side of the bracket.      Player(s) to watch: If there's a last-second shot to be taken and it's not John Wall, it's Florida's Chandler Parsons. If it's a last-second shot-block needed, it's all-time NCAA leader Jarvis Varnado from Mississippi State. And if it's 15 3s in a row you need, it's Arkansas' 3-point sniper Rotnei Clarke. Vandy's Jermaine Beal and Kentucky's DeMarcus Cousins should be significant forces, as well.        Bubble/bracket games of note: A possible Florida-Mississippi State quarterfinal is a clear NCAA elimination game. Mississippi also likely needs to beat Tennessee (assuming the Vols win their opener) in the quarters to have any real at-large hopes. Kentucky is going to be a 1-seed in the NCAAs, so Vandy and Tennessee are the only teams playing solely for seed/location.