
		
						Texas Congressman: I made 'baby killer' remark
					




	
					
				By: CNN's Charles Riley			
		
	
	

Texas Republican Randy Neugebauer admitted to yelling ‘baby killer’ during Sunday’s health care debate.



Washington (CNN) &#8211; A Texas Republican acknowledged on Monday that he was the person who yelled "baby killer" during Sunday's House debate on health care reform.
Related: Neugebauer should apologize to the House, Dem says
Rep. Randy Neugebauer said he shouted out "'it's a baby killer' in reference to the agreement reached by the Democratic leadership" on compromise language that emphasized federal funds would not be used to pay for abortions.
Michigan Rep. Bart Stupak was on the House floor talking about the issue at the time of Neugebauer's outburst. Stupak was the leader of a group of anti-abortion rights Democrats who refused to back health care reform unless their concerns were addressed.
In a statement released by his office, Neugerbauer said that his comments have been misconstrued.

"Last night was the climax of weeks and months of debate on a health care bill that my constituents fear and do not support," he said. "In the heat and emotion of the debate, I exclaimed the phrase 'it's a baby killer' in reference to the agreement reached by the Democratic leadership. While I remain heartbroken over the passage of this bill and the tragic consequences it will have for the unborn, I deeply regret that my actions were mistakenly interpreted as a direct reference to Congressman Stupak himself.
"I have apologized to Mr. Stupak and also apologize to my colleagues for the manner in which I expressed my disappointment about the bill. The House Chamber is a place of decorum and respect. The timing and tone of my comment last night was inappropriate."
&#8211;CNN's Brianna Keilar contributed to this report
Follow Charles Riley on Twitter: @CRrileyCNN
		





		Filed under: Abortion&nbsp;&#149;&nbsp;Bart Stupak&nbsp;&#149;&nbsp;Health care&nbsp;&#149;&nbsp;Popular Posts
	



