    Haiti behind the lensSTORY HIGHLIGHTSPhotographer Peter Turnley documents Haitians burying dead, trying to rebuild livesTurnley, who speaks French, able to connect personally with his subjectsWatch Turnley on &quot;Amanpour&quot; on CNN International on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and MondayWatch him on &quot;Amanpour&quot; on CNN, Sunday, 2 and 5 p.m. ETWatch Peter Turnley as well as Angelina Jolie on her work in Haiti on &quot;Amanpour,&quot; CNN International, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday.  In the U.S., the show appears on CNN, Sunday at 2 and 5 p.m ET.  (CNN) -- World-renowned photographer Peter Turnley traveled to Haiti after the earthquake to document the lives of people burying their dead and trying to rebuild. In an exclusive interview with &quot;Amanpour,&quot; Turnley -- whose photographs have appeared on the cover of &quot;Newsweek&quot; more than 40 times -- talks about the extraordinary moments and emotions he experienced.  He was in the morgue with a man searching for the body of his son, and in the hospital to see a mother's first minutes with her newborn. Fluent in French, Turnley was able to connect personally with the people he photographed.  &quot;What I was seeing was a country and a people between life and death,&quot; Turnley said. &quot;They weren't having any sense that this was going to be easy... I hope the world and the journalistic community will continue to come back to this story for a long time to come.&quot; Turnley has covered earthquakes and conflicts around the world, as well as the fall of the Berlin Wall and the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	




  More World
	
	
		
Source: Hunt for bin Laden missed 'real opportunity'


Party members fear chances of Suu Kyi's release are dim


Indonesia Mount Merapi volcano erupts again Friday


	

  



















		





