                         Laura Silsby is one of 10 Americans accused of trying to take 33 children out of Haiti illegally. STORY HIGHLIGHTSQuake-related electrical problems stall work at courthouseOfficials say decision will likely be delayed until Wednesday10 missionaries are accused of kidnapping Haitian childrenAmericans say they were trying to get children to safety
RELATED TOPICS


Haiti

Haiti Earthquake

 Port-au-Prince, Haiti (CNN) -- A decision on whether bail would be granted for 10 American missionaries detained in Haiti may have been delayed Monday because of quake-related electrical problems at the courthouse. Prosecutors said they couldn't print out their recommendation for the judge to review as scheduled for Monday. Haiti's Deputy Attorney General Jean Serge Josephon on Saturday said he had decided whether to recommend bail be granted for the Americans, who are charged with trying to take dozens of children out of the country without proper documentation. He said he would return the case file and his recommendation on Monday to Examining Judge Bernard Saint-vil, whose decision about whether to grant bail will be final. Officials said the decision would likely be delayed until Wednesday. The Americans face charges of kidnapping and criminal association for trying to take 33 children out of Haiti after the nation's January 12 earthquake. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said Saturday that the United States was still waiting to hear from Haitian authorities. &quot;The Haitian legal system continues to evaluate the charges against the 10 Americans,&quot; he said. &quot;And we have received no formal notification from the Haitian government as to resolution of this case.&quot; &quot;So to the extent that the judge in the case might have something to announce, I would expect that would be early next week,&quot; Crowley added. &quot;We're anxious to see the case resolved as quickly as possible,&quot; Crowley said.CNN's John Vause contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Source: Hunt for bin Laden missed 'real opportunity'


Party members fear chances of Suu Kyi's release are dim


Indonesia Mount Merapi volcano erupts again Friday


	

  













		





