                       Tiger Woods issues a statement last month in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. STORY HIGHLIGHTSWoods spent a week in Arizona in family counseling, source saysGolf legend is now getting back in routine of golfing, working out, says sourceWoods last month apologized for conduct he said included infidelity (CNN) -- Golfer Tiger Woods is back at his Isleworth, Florida, home after a week of family counseling, a person with knowledge of his schedule said Tuesday. The person, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the athlete returned from Arizona, and is now working on getting back into a routine of golfing and working out. Although Woods, who has taken an indefinite break from professional golf, has been hitting golf balls near his home, the person would not say what kind of timetable there was for him to return to competition. Woods apologized last month in a tightly controlled televised statement for his &quot;irresponsible and selfish&quot; behavior, which he said included infidelity. In his remarks, he left open the possibility of returning to professional golf this year. The February 19 statement was Woods' first public appearance since he crashed his Cadillac Escalade into a fire hydrant and then a tree near his home in November. After the early-morning crash, infidelity allegations began to emerge about the golfer, who is married to Elin Nordegren. The couple has two children. Woods said in February that answers about whether he and his wife will remain together are between a husband and a wife, emphasizing the privacy for which he was known before November. Woods' wife was not among about 40 people who sat at the TPC Sawgrass clubhouse in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, to listen to the golfer's apology.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Confessions of a sex addict

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Tiger Woods

Golf

Sex Scandals


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



&quot;As Elin pointed out to me, my real apology to her will not come in the form of words, it will come from my behavior over time,&quot; he said then. &quot;We have a lot to discuss. However, what we say to each other will remain between the two of us.&quot; Several of Woods' major sponsors, including AT&amp;T and Accenture, have ended their business relationships with the athlete. PepsiCo's Gatorade dropped its sponsorship of Woods last week. Procter &amp; Gamble's Gillette said its commercials that feature Woods would stop airing for a while, though the company stopped short of saying it would end the relationship. Other major sponsors, including Nike, have stuck by Woods.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More U.S.
	
	
		
Supreme Court keeps 'don't ask, don't tell' in place during appeal


Police: DNA evidence shows missing 10-year-old girl is dead


Prison or halfway house for Palin e-mail hacker


	

  













		





