                        The Afghan national flag is raised during a ceremony in Marjah, Afghanistan, on Thursday. STORY HIGHLIGHTSSecurity improving in Marjah area, evacuees returning, say U.S. and NATO officials&quot;We're feeling pretty good&quot; about towns, infrastructure, Marine commander saysLocals watching flag ceremony express hope, curiosity, skepticismOffensive by NATO-led and Afghan troops expected to last two or three more weeks Marjah, Afghanistan (CNN) -- Authorities raised the Afghan flag over the battle-scarred enclave of Marjah on Thursday, a ceremony symbolizing the presence of the Afghan government in the Taliban stronghold. The red, black and green banner was hoisted over an area where U.S. and other troops have been fighting the Taliban in Operation Moshtarak -- the biggest offensive of the war. A few hundred people watched the event, attended by Helmand Gov. Gulab Mangal, other provincial and local officials, and military officials. &quot;I think we're feeling pretty good about the control of the populated areas, the infrastructure,&quot; said Brig. Gen. Larry Nicholson, commander of U.S. Marines in southern Afghanistan. About 15,000 NATO-led and Afghan forces hope to oust the Taliban and restore Afghan government control to the region in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. They are working to persuade citizens to turn their allegiance away from the militants and toward the Afghan government. More Afghanistan coverage on Afghanistan Crossroads blog  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Afghan flag raised in Marjah

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Winning minds, disarming IEDs

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: McChrystal issues apology

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Afghanistan

The Taliban

International Security Assistance Force

U.S. Armed Forces Activities


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Viewing the ceremony with hope, curiosity and skepticism, one local in the crowd said he doesn't trust the Afghan government or its security forces. Asked if he thought change will come, Abdul Qader accused the Afghan government of corruption. &quot;If the foreigners do it, things will change. If the Afghans are in charge, there is no way.&quot; Another citizen, Mohammad Sardar, said the Taliban brought the people security, but not proper services such as schools and roads. He said that while he still fears foreign forces, he hopes they can bring about change. Qader said the foreigners won't be able to get rid of the Taliban completely, but the militants &quot;will put their heads down and fade away on the condition that help is brought, roads are built and security is achieved.&quot; The event took place as NATO's International Security Assistance Force reported trends that show security is improving and signs of stability are emerging in the region. The offensive has been under way for 13 days and is expected to continue for at least another two to three weeks. Nicholson said there is still &quot;some fighting to do -- potentially in some areas that we haven't gotten into.&quot; ISAF said in a news release Thursday that security is improving and signs of stability have been emerging despite &quot;occasional&quot; clashes between militants and soldiers. Haji Zahir, deputy district governor of Nad Ali, told 200 people in Marjah at a shura, or community council, that security conditions have improved and that more Afghan National Police were to be posted there, ISAF said. He &quot;promised to ensure the opening of shops and clinics, and personally oversaw the distribution of rice, beans, cooking oil and sugar to the gathering.&quot; The NATO-led command said new shops have opened at Marjah bazaars, with telephones, computers and other electronics available. It said there has been a &quot;significant increase in the number of local residents returning to the area&quot; and &quot;a decrease in the number of residents registering as internally displaced persons.&quot;CNN's Atia Abawi contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Source: Hunt for bin Laden missed 'real opportunity'


Party members fear chances of Suu Kyi's release are dim


Indonesia Mount Merapi volcano erupts again Friday


	

  



















		





