                    STORY HIGHLIGHTSWhat could be the world's largest superyacht will be the length of two football fieldsThe yacht designers say it would cost between $624 million and $1 billion Designers: It will include a helipad, two-level cinema, casino and 100-foot swimming poolThe design is now being offered to billionaires around the world
RELATED TOPICS


New York Yacht Club

Sailing

 London, England (CNN) -- Barely out of a global economic meltdown, the world's remaining billionaires have been presented with the largest and most extravagant superyacht yet. The floating palace has been designed at a whopping 656 feet (200 meters) in length -- as long as two football fields end-to-end.  If built, it would surpass the world's current largest private yacht, Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich's &quot;Eclipse,&quot; by 99 feet (30 meters). With a myriad of over-the-top luxury toys -- including a two-level cinema, a nightclub and helipad -- the yacht unsurprisingly comes with a hefty price tag. Berkeley March, the yacht's naval architect, told CNN the boat could cost up to $1 billion (&pound;650 million) to build, &quot;depending on the needs of the clients.&quot;   



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					 When you are used to living in a palace with dozens of servants, you don't want to cruise the world on a small yacht--Berkeley March
 
				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



&quot;For example, the client could request gold furniture,&quot; March explained. The designers believe that despite the recession, there are still enough people who have a spare $1 billion to spend on what is described as the &quot;ultimate luxury.&quot; &quot;Some people may say the timing was a little bit daft,&quot; March said. &quot;But I think that many people who previously would not have had the power to buy such a yacht, are thinking that now is their chance. The people left with a lot of money have more power now, as there is less demand.&quot; According to March, the yacht, now known only as &quot;Project 1000,&quot; could be in the water in under five years.  Replete with features that would make even the most blas&eacute; billionaire take notice, it will also include a drive-in-garage, a 100-foot swimming pool, a casino, a health spa and numerous bars and nightclubs. According to March, the recession did not change rich people's beliefs that &quot;size matters.&quot; &quot;When you are used to living in a palace with dozens of servants, you don't want to cruise the oceans on a small yacht,&quot; he said. And at the end of the day, added March, &quot;recession or not, it's still all about men's egos.&quot; 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Tech
	
	
		
Apple computer for sale: only $160K!


From bomb maker wannabe to e-bike revolutionary


Narnia's 'Dawn Treader' sails enhanced e-book wave


	

  
		





