






'Tech Check' podcast: 'Call of Duty,' drunken tweets






In this week's "Tech Check" podcast, the crew breaks down stories ranging from the massive "Call of Duty" debut, to the Samsung Galaxy to the person (or people) responsible for the Tech Fail of the Week. FULL&nbsp;STORY





Tech Check 













Mass Twitter campaign supports airport threat tweeter



Thousands of people have been retweeting a message threatening to blow up an airport in support of a British man who lost his appeal on Thursday against his conviction for sending the original tweet. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Thair Shaikh, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Yahoo to expand its blog network Monday






As countless print- or TV-based news organizations continue their descent, the future of the news business still seems curiously bright. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Web

















Boxee Box now shipping, Netflix and Hulu Plus coming soon






Boxee has announced that its Boxee Box -- a set-top box for streaming video content built in collaboration with D-Link -- is now available in 33 countries. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Chris Foresman, Ars Technica 
Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Future soldiers may be wearing 'Iron Man' suits






A lunchtime crowd is gathering beside the parking lot at Raytheon Sarcos, the defense contractor, on a recent day in Salt Lake City. White-collar workers from nearby office parks stand with their yogurt cups and sandwiches, watching with quiet awe as a man in a metal suit -- sort of half-man, half-robot -- performs sup&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Eric Marrapodi and Chris Lawrence, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Android and Qualcomm are the new Wintel&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Google's Android mobile operating system has been credited with saving struggling handset manufacturers, but it may ultimately be the thing that kills a number of them off. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Goldman, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















Intel raises its dividend&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Intel Corp. announced Friday that it is raising its dividend by 15%, joining the ranks of other technology giants that have beefed up dividend activity. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Aaron Smith, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















Twitter co-founder talks with CNN











CNN's Wolf Blitzer - an avid tweeter himself - gets the scoop on Twitter from co-founder Biz Stone. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Baidu succeeds where Google struggles











Is China's biggest search engine a Google clone with a home court advantage, or an innovator in its own right? FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Web

















Twitter could help iTunes Ping reach bored office workers






One million people registered for Apple's music-centric social network in the first 48 hours it became available in September. But some evidence indicates that Ping may be having trouble keeping their attention. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















'Zombie' virus attacks more than 1 million cell phones in China






More than 1 million cell phones in China have been struck by the "Zombie" virus, according to Chinese state media, CCTV and Xinhua. FULL&nbsp;STORY





From Jack Maddox, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Layoff rumors swirl around Yahoo&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Yahoo is preparing to cull its workforce of around 14,000, according to reports from two tech blogs, but how deep the cuts will go is an open question. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Stacy Cowley, tech editor Filed under: Tech Biz

















GOOG-411 shuts down, but there's an alternative






Google's 411 service will shut down for good on Friday, but that doesn't mean the end of free calls to business numbers. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Smartphone sales up 96 percent but still trail feature phones






Around the world, smartphones are gaining ground fast. But they're not yet the norm. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Amy Gahran, Special to CNN Filed under: Mobile

















'Call of Duty: Black Ops' smashes one-day sales record






Move over, Activision. Here comes Activision. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jason Schreier Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Is this the first step toward a flying car?






Along with the jetpack, the flying car tops the list of classic science-fiction imaginings that lead legions of fans to ask -- why don't we have this yet? FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Inside 'Call of Duty: Black Ops'











From the Cold War to zombies, the new "Call of Duty" aims to get fans shooting. CNN takes you behind the scenes. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Jimmy Kimmel calls for National Unfriend Day






Kimmel used Wednesday's episode of his Jimmy Kimmel Live show to declare November 17, 2010 National UnFriend Day [NUD] -- a new holiday he hopes will inspire Facebook users to unfriend the social networking contacts that aren't real friends. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jennifer Van Grove, Mashable 
Filed under: Social Media

















Is Facebook about to overhaul messages?






It looks like Facebook's messaging system about to get a long-awaited overhaul -- possibly the rumored Project Titan of earlier this year. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Ben Parr, Mashable 
Filed under: Social Media

















Could Facebook replace your e-mail inbox?






Facebook is inviting the press to a special event Monday, leading some to speculate that the company is set to overhaul its Messages product. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Pete Cashmore, Special to CNN Filed under: Social Media

















FCC investigating Google data breach&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



The Federal Communications Commission is investigating whether Google broke the law by collecting personal information from Internet users while gathering data for its Street View mapping technology. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Goldman, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















Hulu revenue doubles to $240 million&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Hulu now reaches 30 million viewers a month, and Zynga's games draw a bigger daily audience than the New York Times. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Julianne Pepitone, staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















Shares of Cisco sink 17% on outlook&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Cisco Systems Inc. reported a quarterly profit and sales Wednesday that beat Wall Street's forecasts, but a cautious outlook sent shares plummeting. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Goldman, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















Dare to trash your boss on Facebook?











CNN hits the streets to find out if anyone is brave enough to talk trash about their boss on Facebook. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Social Media

















'Immersive' digital projections transform buildings into canvases






Iconic buildings disintegrate; facades peel away to reveal other realms; and towers blast off into space. These are just some of the effects achieved by cutting edge technology known as digital projection mapping. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Laura Allsop for CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Mozilla launches F1, a new way to share links






Today, Mozilla's Messaging group launched F1, a Firefox extension that aims to make sharing content around the social web much easier. FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Jolie O'Dell, Mashable 
Filed under: Web

















Google's fight to keep its top minds&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Google is known to hire the best and the brightest Silicon Valley has to offer, but hanging onto that talent can be a struggle. Google's bold move to boost morale -- a 10% across-the-board pay raise -- has already cost it one worker: The employee who&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By David Goldman, staff writer Filed under: Tech Biz

















Apple: No new apps in store during holidays






If all you want for the holidays is a new app, you'll have to wait a few days. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Google Instant Previews show search results before you click






Google has been working to make its web searches faster -- up to the point of guessing what you're searching for before you're finished typing with Google Instant. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Web

















Labor board: Facebook vent against supervisor not grounds for firing






In what could prove to be a precedent-setting case, the National Labor Relations Board has issued a complaint against a Connecticut company for firing an employee after she posted critical, derogatory comments about her supervisor on Facebook. FULL&nbsp;STORY





From Monika Plocienniczak, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















NASA telescope reveals huge gamma-ray bulge at center of Milky Way



NASA animation demonstrates how researchers uncovered the size and shape of the gamma-ray "bubble" hovering over the core of the Milky Way: FULL&nbsp;STORY






Filed under: Innovation

















Facebook won't 'share' contacts with Gmail






Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg talks about "sharing" info and "connecting" people to each other more than Kanye West talks about himself. And the site's mission statement hits those themes hard, saying Facebook's goal is to give people "the power to share and make the world more open and connected." FULL&nbsp;STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Web

















Opera's browser provides shelter from cell data limits






People usually don't give much thought to which Web browser they run on their phones. But thanks to new limits being imposed by cellular carriers, Opera Software's applications could find more fans. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Mark Milian, CNN Filed under: Mobile

















Study links too much texting, social networking to health risks






All that texting and social networking by teenagers could come back to byte them. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Ed Payne, CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Nintendo seeks to trademark 'On like Donkey Kong'






Think it's "on like Donkey Kong?" Better make sure Nintendo agrees with you. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Beware drunken e-mailing, Facebooking






Remember when the only way you could electronically ruin your life after imbibing a few G 'n' Ts was by picking up the phone? "I stilll lurrvvvee you... even if you are a lying jerk who still kisses like a reptile at age 34. Please take me back! I'm outside your building... It's raining and my shoes are all squishy." FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Andrea Bartz and Brenna Ehrlich, Special to CNN Filed under: Social Media

















Are tablets the smartphone killer?






Gadget Lab editor Dylan Tweney is posing the question: What is the perfect phone to tether an iPad? FULL&nbsp;STORY








By John C. Abell, WIRED Filed under: Mobile

















Samsung teases 10-Inch Galaxy Tab






Well, well, well. What could Samsung be planning to do with this 10.1-inch LCD panel? FULL&nbsp;STORY








By Charlie Sorrel, WIRED Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Electric Volt and Leaf: Zippy, fun, superquiet






This is a story of two test drives, albeit two very different ones. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Steve Almasy, CNN Filed under: Innovation

















Electricity Storage: Can It Work?&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



The curious thing about electricity is that it is the only commodity we can think of -- with the possible exception of souffl&eacute; chocolat -- that has to be consumed the moment it is made. Power travels across the grid at the speed of light. And what is&hellip; FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Brian Dumaine, assistant managing editor Filed under: Tech Biz

















Ask.com ditches its search business&nbsp;CNNMoney.com



Ask.com, long relegated to also-ran status in the search-engine war, is cutting 130 engineering jobs and outsourcing its search technology. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Julianne Pepitone, staff reporter Filed under: Tech Biz

















What makes a video go viral in China?











Tudou.com's Gary Wang talks to CNN's Kristie Lu Stout about how China's "netizens" use video sharing to highlight issues. FULL&nbsp;VIDEO





Source: CNN Filed under: Social Media

















5 reasons to sign up for 'Call of Duty: Black Ops'






With its eye-popping visuals, compelling Cold War storyline and a seemingly endless array of online battle options, Tuesday's 12:01 a.m. release of "Call of Duty: Black Ops" ushered in a new era in my house. FULL&nbsp;STORY





By Dereyck Moore, CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Apple teases 100+ new features in iPad software update






The iPad will get its first major software upgrade this month when an update to its operating system is rolled out for the tablet computer, according to Apple. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By Doug Gross, CNN Filed under: Gaming &amp; Gadgets

















Mobile phones may diagnose STDs






A research project in Europe aims to let people self-diagnose sexually transmitted diseases like HIV and syphilis by using their mobile phones. FULL&nbsp;STORY







By John D. Sutter, CNN Filed under: Innovation










