                    Too little, too late for Tiger?STORY HIGHLIGHTSNEW: No word on whether Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren, will appear with her husbandAgent: Woods will make statement at PGA headquarters in Ponte Vedra Beach, FloridaWoods will not answer questions, agent Mark Steinberg saysWoods plans to discuss his future and to apologize for his behavior, Steinberg says (CNN)  -- Golfer Tiger Woods will &quot;apologize for his behavior&quot; Friday when he makes a statement at PGA headquarters in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, his agent said. Agent Mark Steinberg said Woods would not answer questions. It will be the golfer's first public appearance since his November 27 car crash outside his home near Orlando, Florida. &quot;Tiger Woods will be speaking to a small group of friends, colleagues and close associates,&quot; Steinberg said. &quot; ... Tiger plans to discuss his past and his future and he intends to apologize for his behavior.&quot; A statement on Woods' Web site elaborated: &quot;While Tiger feels that what happened is fundamentally a matter between him and his wife, he also recognizes that he has hurt and let down a lot of other people who were close to him. He also let down his fans. He wants to begin the process of making amends, and that's what he's going to discuss.&quot; Blog: No apologies Tiger, just be real  Steinberg said he didn't know if Woods' wife, Elin Nordegren, would appear with her husband.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Golfers sound off on Tiger

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Tiger's hard comeback

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Tiger Woods


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Woods crashed his black Cadillac Escalade into a fire hydrant and then a tree just a few days after the National Enquirer reported he was having an affair with a New York nightclub hostess who denied the affair. A day after he paid his $164 traffic ticket, Woods' seemingly perfect world began to crumble under what would eventually become an avalanche of allegations of infidelity threatening his five-year marriage to Nordegren. The couple have two children, Charlie, 1, and Sam, 2. Woods issued an apology for &quot;transgressions&quot; that had let his family down, as several women reported they had affairs with the golfer -- including one woman who allegedly had Woods on a voicemail asking her to take his name off her cell phone because &quot;my wife went through my phone and may be calling you.&quot; Several of Woods' major sponsors, including AT&amp;T and Accenture, ended their business relationships with Woods following the crash and the exposure of his marriage troubles. iReport: Share your thoughts on Woods' apology But other companies, including Nike and Pepsi's Gatorade, continue to sponsor Woods, who has taken a break from his professional golfing career. Procter &amp; Gamble's Gillette said it would stop airing commercials featuring the golfer for a while.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More U.S.
	
	
		
Supreme Court keeps 'don't ask, don't tell' in place during appeal


Police: DNA evidence shows missing 10-year-old girl is dead


Prison or halfway house for Palin e-mail hacker


	

  













		





