                         U.S. Vice President Joe Biden was attending the Olympic opening ceremony when the incident occurred. STORY HIGHLIGHTSApparently mentally ill man breached security at Olympics, got close to VP&quot;Not at any time was the VP in any danger,&quot; said security spokesmanMan used fake credentials to get inside British Columbia Place
RELATED TOPICS


2010 Winter Olympics

Joe Biden

Canada

 Vancouver, British Columbia (CNN) -- A man who authorities said apparently suffers from mental illness managed to breach security during the Olympics opening ceremony and get close to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, Canadian officials said Wednesday. &quot;Not at any time was the VP in any danger,&quot; said Olivier Lapointe, spokesman for the Vancouver 2010 Integrated Security Unit. The man, who was not identified, used fake credentials to get inside British Columbia Place, the site of the 2010 Winter Olympic opening ceremony Friday, according to Lapointe. Police apprehended him about 12 rows away from Biden's section, Lapointe said. He briefly escaped police custody, running into a nearby hallway, but was quickly recaptured, Royal Canadian Mounted Police Sgt. Gregory Gomez del Prado said. The man did not have any weapons on him and did not appear to have criminal intentions, Lapointe said. The man likely suffers from mental illness and won't face any criminal charges, Lapointe added. Lapointe did not describe the credentials used to enter the stadium, but the man had to pass through three security layers to get close to Biden. Security included ticket checking and a pedestrian screening area equipped with metal detectors, according to Royal Canadian Mounted Police Cpl. Joe Taplin.CNN's Scott Thompson, Carol Cratty and Paul Chambers contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Politics
	
	
		
Is Kristi Noem South Dakota's Sarah Palin?


Political Circus: Hotties in the House


Is America losing its influence?


	

  













		





