                          According to The Frisky, there are several reasons why George Clooney appeared upset at the Academy Awards last night. STORY HIGHLIGHTSThe Frisky has 11 reasons suggesting why George Clooney looked so bothered at the OscarsGuesses range from not winning best actor to having too many ex-girlfriends in the roomClooney has an Academy Award for best supporting actor, but not for best actor 
RELATED TOPICS


George Clooney

Academy Awards

 (The Frisky) -- Was is just me, or did George Clooney seem upset at the Oscars last night?  His sourpuss act in the front row almost made me miss Jack Nicholson smirking in his dark sunglasses. And George's lady, Elisabetta Canalis, wasn't looking too chipper either -- those two had &quot;Debbie Downer&quot; written all over their faces.  Sure, George played nice for two seconds on the red carpet, but once he got inside ... forget it. What the heck does he have to be so pissed about? Here are our best guesses. 1. George is over it. He's happy where his career is and this whole Oscar business is too much of a pretense for him to even pretend to enjoy it anymore.  2. Elisabetta told George she was pregnant just moments before their Oscar limo arrived.  3. He knew he wasn't going to beat Jeff Bridges, plain and simple. Sure, he has an Oscar for best supporting actor, but he wants the big boy. He resented wasting 14 hours of his time for a loss?  The Frisky - 10 Reasons we love Sandra Bullock! 4. George hated his floppy, gray hairdo and couldn't stop thinking about it long enough to have a good time.  5. George wanted to go stag, but his publicists forced him to take Elisabetta to help him shed his swinging bachelor image.  6. He was wearing Spanx to hide recent weight gain. He wasn't unhappy -- just uncomfortable. The Frisky: 10 celebs with religious tattoos 7. He likes to ride his motorcycle on Sundays, and his whole routine got thrown off.  8. Like any man, George hates seeing all of his ex-girlfriends in the same room at the same time.  The Frisky: 13 shocking celeb yearbook photos  9. He was trying to tone down his enthusiasm so as not to make Elisabetta feel bad that she didn't get nominated for her role in &quot;Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo.&quot;  10. George and Elisabetta got their Botox injections too close to the big night. They wanted to smile, but just couldn't.  11. Some starlet accidentally stabbed his toe with her stiletto while walking down the red carpet.  The Frisky: Dating on a dime TM & &#169 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Academy snubs Farrah Fawcett and Bea Arthur in memorial montage  The Frisky


10 sluttiest outfits from the Oscars red carpet  The Frisky


Kathryn Bigelow wore jeweled bands, but not on her ring finger  The Frisky

  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Kelly Osbourne: Bristol Palin may win 'DWTS'


Stage review: The Pee-wee Herman Show


Michelle Duggar goes skydiving


	

  













		





