                                  Joseph Bohlig, 52, flashed a big smile recently when he and a friend summited a mountain in Ecuador. STORY HIGHLIGHTSNEW: Joe Bohlig &quot;caught the fever&quot; on first Mount St. Helens climb, friend saysNEW: Bohlig won award for photo of snow cornice -- perhaps one that killed himNEW: Friend may climb St. Helens with Bohlig's family on eruption anniversaryClimber obviously died from fall, official says; no autopsy  (CNN) -- Joe Bohlig was always up for an adventure, his best friend says, and that's what did him in. Bohlig's body was recovered Tuesday from the snow-covered crater of Washington's Mount St. Helens volcano, where he'd fallen Monday from the peak he and Scott Salkovics had reached dozens of times over the years. &quot;At the drop of a hat I'd think of some crazy, fun thing to do and he'd be game, unlike so many people of our age, quite frankly,&quot; Salkovics said. &quot;We're not spring chickens; 52 years old, he's out there climbing like a 23-year-old.&quot; The two men met in 1987 while working at a Weyerhaeuser Paper Co. plant in Washington. Salkovics needed a climbing partner and invited the &quot;hard-core runner&quot; Bohlig to join him. &quot;He intended to do it just the one time, but he caught the fever more than I ever did, even, and from then on it was game on. We did a lot of climbs together,&quot; Salkovics said. &quot;He was actually a fitter climber than I ever was.&quot; Salkovics was the last person to see Bohlig alive, as Bohlig got ready to pose for a picture before a snow cornice -- or overhang -- gave way and he fell 1,500 feet to his death. &quot;Boom. It busted off, and I saw him clawing for the edge with a startled look on his face, and then he disappeared,&quot; Salkovics, an Army Reserve Chinook helicopter pilot and technician, told CNN affiliate KGW. &quot;I was looking right at him. He was only 10 feet away ... then he just disappeared.&quot;  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Climber's father speaks

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Body found in crater

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	



There will be no autopsy, Chris Lanz of the Skamania County, Washington, prosecuting attorney and coroner's office said Wednesday. &quot;It is obvious from an initial examination by coroners that Mr. Bohlig died from injuries as a result of the fall,&quot; Lanz told CNN.  The cause of death is blunt trauma, he said, adding that it is unlikely that an autopsy would have revealed whether Bohlig initially survived the fall. Bohlig's injuries were extensive, Lanz said.  Bohlig and Salkovics had just returned in January from a climbing adventure in Ecuador, Salkovics said. &quot;We summited a number of peaks there and had a wonderful trip,&quot; he said. The two men even discussed buying property in Ecuador for adventures in retirement. Bohlig loved to take photos. In fact, he won a first-place award in a local fair for a picture of cornices on Mount St. Helens, Salkovics said. &quot;It may have been the same exact cornice&quot; that betrayed Bohlig, he said. &quot;That's kind of profound.&quot; Read about one climber's experiences with snow cornices Salkovics said his first inclination is never to climb Mount St. Helens again, &quot;but I don't know if I can stay away.&quot;   



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					 I can't imagine climbing anything without him. ... There's not many people I want to be on a rope with.

--Scott Salkovics, best friend
 
				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Mount St. Helens

Geology


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



He and Bohlig had reservations to climb the mountain on May 18, the 30th anniversary of its spectacular eruption. He may make the climb with one or more of Bohlig's family members. &quot;It's hard to sort out my feelings right now,&quot; he admitted. &quot;I can't imagine climbing anything without him. ... There's not many people I want to be on a rope with.&quot; Bohlig, who was divorced, leaves his parents, a sister, a twin brother, a younger brother and a girlfriend behind, said Salkovics, who considered him part of his own family. Funeral arrangements have not been completed.  Salkovics intends to speak, &quot;if I can keep it together.&quot; &quot;He was always there for me. I did two tours in Iraq, and he was included in my vacation plans with my family. ... I can't imagine: I won't be surprised if I have to do another tour, and he won't be there when I come home. &quot;I knew he was a big part of my life, but I didn't know how big until he was gone.&quot;CNN's Patrick Oppmann contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More U.S.
	
	
		
Supreme Court keeps 'don't ask, don't tell' in place during appeal


Police: DNA evidence shows missing 10-year-old girl is dead


Prison or halfway house for Palin e-mail hacker


	

  













		





