 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


                                              Antawn Jamison has long been rumored to be a trade target for the Cavaliers.Ned Dishman/NBAE via Getty Images     
  3. What is the Cavs' best course of action at the deadline -- make a major splash (like Amar'e Stoudemire), a smaller move (like Troy Murphy) or stand pat with a team that has the best record in the NBA, a seven-game lead in the East and two regular-season victories against the defending champion Lakers?      Thomsen: A trade for Stoudemire could help this season as well as this summer by essentially taking one of the top free agents away from rivals. As long as the Cavs are able to integrate Stoudemire -- and having a playmaker like LeBron will help -- his arrival should make Cleveland more attractive than ever when James is deciding whether to re-sign. There's a chance all the top free agents will remain at home -- James, Wade, Bosh and Joe Johnson -- which would mean that the Cavs scored the biggest free agent to change teams, and they did so preemptively, without cap space.      Yet, many in the league believe Jamison would be a better fit for Cleveland, though he wouldn't have the additional influence on the free-agent market this summer. Either player would join up front with Shaquille O'Neal to give LeBron more star power than he's ever had in Cleveland. Meanwhile, at the moment Troy Murphy looks like a backup plan for Cleveland to pursue if it can't trade for Stoudemire or Jamison.      Hughes: Cavs general manager Danny Ferry's career is probably going to come down to this very decision. But no pressure. I don't like messing with what they have. Now that they have Shaq fitting in nicely as their third option, it looks like they have a nice mix and are playing in a free flow. I'd be afraid that adding Stoudemire would muck up the dynamics. There obviously is more at stake here (LeBron's future), but it seems the Cavs would be forgoing a championship now in order to go for one in the future. Unless LeBron specifically agrees that acquiring Stoudemire will keep him in town, Cleveland should avoid bringing him on.      McCallum: This is a tough one. The most compelling factor for making a splashy deal (i.e. Stoudemire) is that the Cavs apparently wouldn't have to gut their roster to get him. But the chemical question is a very real one, even if Shaq and Stoudemire were to mesh, as they did with the run-and-guns Suns. (And did not under the Terry Porter Suns.) But I guess you want the question answered, so I'm going with a) doing nothing as best option, b) going for Stoudemire as next best and c) making a minor move as third best and unnecessary.       Mannix: Feels like we had this conversation last year, doesn't it? The Cavs were rolling, decided to stay the course ... and then watched Wally Szczerbiak (their prime trade bait at the deadline) shoot 3-for-14 against Orlando in a conference-finals loss. The &quot;if it ain't broke, don't fix it&quot; adage doesn't work for the Cavs this season. They need to make themselves head and shoulders better than everyone else in the East or risk the possibility of being eliminated in the second round by Orlando or Atlanta. Jamison works for now, Stoudemire fits both now and in the future. One way or another, the Cavs need to make a big splash.      4. The Mavs acquired Caron Butler, Brendan Haywood and DeShawn Stevenson and gave up Josh Howard as part of a seven-player trade with the Wizards. What's the significance of the deal for Dallas and the Western Conference as a whole?      Thomsen: There is no clear-cut No. 2 contender in the West. The Mavs hope Haywood's length and Butler's scoring and toughness will position them as a main challenger to the Lakers. It also gives them more depth going into this summer, when they could emerge as a sign-and-trade contender for Bosh or another free agent.      Hughes: Dirk Nowitzki brought this up after the All-Star Game on Sunday night: The Mavericks get one practice with their new teammates and then play four games in five nights. It's going to take longer than that to incorporate them. However, I like the deal for Dallas. I just wonder if the Mavs are going to have to take a hit in the short term while roles are redefined in order to be successful in the long term. They are only 1½ games ahead of the Nos. 5, 6 and 7 seeds, and any slippage means losing home-court advantage in the first round.      McCallum: Very significant. A few seasons ago we were talking about Butler as possibly becoming one of the league's truly elite players until he was derailed by injuries and the generally poisonous atmosphere that seems to drag almost everyone down in our nation's capital. I always liked Howard, but the mojo had obviously soured between him and the team, and Butler can be everything Howard is on the court ... and more off of it. Plus, Haywood is another big body to take fouls during the playoffs. Sure, other midseason moves by the Mavs haven't resulted in title runs before (see Jason Kidd, see Raef LaFrentz), but I see this as a good one.       Mannix: I think this deal vaults the Mavs to the No. 2 team in the conference. Butler's struggles could be largely attributed to a) trying to adjust to his role in Flip Saunders' flex offense and b) daily frustration at the circus-like atmosphere that has enveloped Washington this year. But Butler will be a valuable contributor at two, possibly three positions for the Mavs. And Haywood assures Dallas of having a 7-footer backstopping the front line at all times.    1  2