  
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


                                                 Thirty years after winning gold, U.S. captain Mike Eruzione now coaches youth hockey.Heinz Kluetmeier/SI     

  5. The U.S., famously, got a cheap goal with one second left in the first period, when the legendary Vladislav Tretiak gave up a terrible rebound and U.S. center Mark Johnson jammed home the puck. That goal did more than just tie the game 2-2. It so enraged Soviet coach Viktor Tikhonov that he immediately pulled Tretiak. And when he pulled Tretiak, it had a huge impact on the U.S. hopes. &quot;We were in awe of Tretiak,&quot; U.S. captain Mike Eruzione said.      But it's interesting... until I saw the game again I did not realize how it happened. There was still one second left in the period, of course, and the Soviets had already headed to the locker room. They did not want to come back out for the pointless one-second face-off. But they had to come back, and eventually they sent out a shell team -- three players and a goalie. And the goalie was backup goalie Vladimir Myshkin. So, at that moment, it appeared that Tikhonov had only pulled Tretiak for that meaningless face-off. Nobody really thought he had PULLED Tretiak for good.      But sure enough, the second period started, and Vladimir Myshkin was in goal instead of Tretiak.      &quot;I don't know what was the reason,&quot; Tretiak told me more than 20 years after the game. &quot;It's a big secret. Ask my coach. I still don't know.      4. Ken Morrow was the glue for the 1980 team... a stay-at-home defenseman who cleared the puck and steadied the ship and so on. You know that as soon as he and the 1980 Olympic team won gold, Morrow went to play for the New York Islanders. And... the Islanders won Stanley Cup. In fact, the Islanders won the next four Stanley Cups. I've gotten to know Morrow just a little bit -- he lives in Kansas City -- and he is one of the great guys in the world. He will talk about what a charmed life he has led.      &quot;It was like why me?&quot; he says. &quot;But in a good way.&quot;      3. The memory, of course, is of the U.S. crowd going absolutely crazy. You will hear people say that was one of the loudest buildings in the history of American sports. And, at the end, it definitively was loud. But the truth is that for most of the game the crowd was actually quite quiet. In fact, there's a moment in the third period where Michaels says: &quot;Now, finally, the crowd comes alive.&quot;      &quot;You have to understand,&quot; Michaels says, &quot;until Johnson scores that tying goal in the third period, there really wasn't much to cheer about.&quot;      He's right. The second period was utterly dominated by the Soviets. The Soviets scored a goal early in the second period to make the score 3-2. And then they just peppered U.S. goalie Jim Craig. The U.S. managed only two shots on goal the whole period (the Soviets had 12), and the score could easily have been 4-2 or 5-2 by the end of that period. Remember, the Soviets were huge favorites... everyone in the crowd realized that at any moment they could score three or four or five quick goals and make a mockery of the game. So the crowd was subdued until Johnson scored the tying goal with 12 minutes left. And then, it is like the same thought hit every person in the crowd (and the country) all at once: &quot;Holy cow, the U.S. could actually WIN THIS GAME.&quot;      2. Michaels says that if he had thought up his famous line earlier -- &quot;Do you believe in miracles? Yes!&quot; -- he never would have said it. The thing you have to understand about Michaels is that he's a pro's pro. Get the names right. Get the action right. Never jump the gun. Never say what you don't know. That's his blueprint. That's his life. And Michaels believes that if he had thought up the line earlier, he would have discarded it because in his head it would sound jingoistic or corny or both.      But he did not think up the line earlier... he was calling the game and the word &quot;miraculous&quot; popped into his head. That's what it was. Miraculous. The Soviets were the greatest hockey team on earth... better than NHL teams. The U.S. team was a bunch of college kids. This could not be happening. Miraculous. And as the puck came out with five seconds to go -- &quot;How lucky was I that the puck came out,&quot; Michaels would say -- the words just came out of him. Do you believe in miracles? Yes!      Years later, Michaels would re-do the hockey commentary for the movie &quot;Miracle.&quot; But when it came to that final, memorable line -- probably the most famous call in the history of American sports -- they used the original recording. &quot;I couldn't do that line again,&quot; Michaels says. &quot;No way.&quot;      1. This is in the Michaels-Costas story, but it's worth repeating here... Michaels did not just leave after the game was over. He called the Finland-Sweden hockey game. So while he, of course, understood just how big the U.S. victory had been, he was unaware of the nation's reaction, unaware of the way Americans had poured into the streets of Lake Placid. When he left the game, he saw all the people celebrating, all the waving flags, and he made it back to the hotel, and someone said to him: &quot;Wow, that was incredible what you said.&quot; And for a second Michaels thought, &quot;What did I say?&quot;      It's interesting, Michaels says he never gets tired of people coming up to him to talk about that call or that game. He never tires of hearing people say where they were when they heard the call. I was in our TV room, my father was on the couch, my mother was out playing cards. I remember jumping up and down when Eruzione scored the game-winner... and I suspect that was the first hockey game I had watched, beginning to end, on television (I did go to a Cleveland Barons game once). Of course, it was the first hockey game that many Americans had seen.      &quot;That was the beauty of that game,&quot; Michaels says. &quot;You didn't have to understand to understand.&quot;      1  2