 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


             New Cavalier Antawn Jamison has averaged at least 20 points and 7 rebounds in each of his last six seasons with the Wizards.Ned Dishman/NBAE via Getty Images     

  Almost half of the league's teams were involved in deadline trades over the past week. There appeared to be a number of explosions, but when the smoke cleared very little of importance had altered the championship race this season.  5 (or more) developments from the deadline    &#149; Cleveland is better than ever. Literally. When Antawn Jamison joins the Cavaliers on the court this weekend, he'll fill out the most talented and promising team of their 40-year history. And when Zydrunas Ilgauskas likely returns following an anticipated buyout from Washington and a 30-day enforced leave, Cleveland will look ahead to the playoffs with a frontcourt of intimidating length and depth between 6-foot-8 LeBron James, 7-1 Shaquille O'Neal, 6-9 Jamison, 7-3 Ilgauskas -- all current or former All-Stars -- in addition to 6-11 Anderson Varejao and 6-9 power forward J.J. Hickson, the 21-year old who started 48 games this season and probably would have been dealt to Phoenix if a proposed deal for Amar'e Stoudemire had been consummated.      Of the debate between Stoudemire or Jamison, the former Wizard is the more reliable addition, based not only on his personality but also on Stoudemire's history of injuries. The Cavs know that Jamison will fit into their locker room, and that he'll space the floor for Shaq without demanding the ball, thus heightening O'Neal's value in the post. Jamison is 33, but he has only two full years remaining on his contract, and the Cavs have a good idea what they can expect from him over that time. Had they traded for Stoudemire, then they would have been under pressure to sign him through 2015-16, at which time he would be making huge money as a 33-year-old with a history of knee trouble and a game that relies on athleticism.      The Wizards had been discussing a package that would have sent Jamison and the expiring $6.5 million contract of Mike James to Cleveland in exchange for Jamario Moon and Ilgauskas, with no draft pick coming to Washington. Then the Clippers called Washington to ask about Drew Gooden, picked up in last week's deal that sent Caron Butler to Dallas, and that resulted in a better deal for both the Cavs and Wizards.      The stakes on a potential buyout of Ilgauskas went up when the Wizards subsequently dealt Dominic McGuire's contract to Sacramento, leaving Washington under the luxury tax and therefore with no pressing financial need to set Ilgauskas free for a return to Cleveland. Ilgauskas must be released by March 1 in order to be eligible for the playoffs, so it will be interesting to follow his negotiations with the Wizards.      This deal for Jamison has a strong chance of becoming this year's version of the move Detroit made at the 2004 deadline to acquire Rasheed Wallace, resulting in a championship for the Pistons just four months later. If so, it may ultimately take James off the board as a free agent this summer.      &#149; The Knicks become a player. Would one max free agent have been willing to come to New York this summer on his own? The Knicks were worried about trying to attract LeBron, Dwyane Wade or anyone else as the lone star on a roster lacking in complementary pieces. The lonesome free agent who signed with the Knicks would have been greeted as savior over the summer, but then in winter he would have been held accountable for every loss.      This is why I was among those who doubted whether the Knicks could attract a single major star this summer. But the outlook is entirely more promising for them now. Thanks to the three-team deal that unloaded Jared Jeffries to Houston, the Knicks have a chance to do something very good. They can offer free-agent contracts worth more than $30 million, and depending on the mixture of talent they attract, they may yet be able to re-sign All-Star forward David Lee to a reasonable deal. Danilo Gallinari and Wilson Chandler will remain on the books next season at a combined $5.4 million. That's not such a bad first step at all to go with Mike D'Antoni, who has retained his reputation as one of the league's best coaches despite New York's momentary dearth of talent.      The Knicks don't have their draft choice this year -- hooray for Utah, which owns the unprotected rights to New York's upcoming lottery pick -- and in order to escape their crucial $6.9 million commitment next year to Jeffries, the Knicks had to give up current rookie Jordan Hill (who was the No. 8 pick), the rights to their first-rounder next year (Houston has the option to swap picks unless it is No. 1 overall) and their first-rounder in 2012 (which is protected Nos. 1-5).      The knee-jerk response would be to complain that the Knicks are &quot;mortgaging their future.&quot; But this mortgage actually makes sense. The earlier mortgages -- which the Knicks finally paid off this week -- had been drowning underwater following years of overspending unwisely in a hopeless effort to win now.      Even if James appears more likely than ever to remain with Cleveland, the Knicks now have a chance to turn the misery of the last two years into an opportunity to recruit Wade and Bosh; or Joe Johnson and Stoudemire; or Johnson and a secondary free agent, which might leave enough to re-sign Lee (if they sign Lee first -- it's all very complicated). And if the Knicks want draft choices, their owner, James Dolan, has already shown a willingness to spend the $3 million necessary to buy them.      &#149; The trade that wasn't made. This makes three straight years that the Suns have been rumored to be moving Stoudemire at the deadline. This time talks with the Cavs fizzled when Hickson was pulled out of a proposed deal, reports the Arizona Republic, leading to failed attempts to bring Carlos Boozer to Phoenix in a three-way exchange for Ilgauskas' expiring money. Then there were dalliances with Miami and Houston.      As the Celtics learned in their attempt to find a younger star to replace Ray Allen in exchange for his expiring contract, it is practically impossible in this market to realize equal talent in a trade. The Suns didn't want to surrender Stoudemire and fall out of the playoffs, knowing that their draft pick is owed to Oklahoma City.      Here's the problem: Though Stoudemire says he may return to Phoenix on a $17.7 million option next season, it makes more sense for him to become a free agent this summer and negotiate a new contract under the more accommodating rules of the current bargaining agreement. If he doesn't become a free agent now, then he faces going into a 2011 lockout without a contract, followed by negotiations under the oppressive conditions of the new CBA. So he may very well depart this summer and leave Phoenix with nothing in return. The Suns have faced nothing but bad options.      &#149; Rick Adelman reunites with Kevin Martin. Houston could have had cap space this summer by renouncing Luis Scola; instead it surrendered Sixth Man Award candidate Carl Landry to Sacramento as part of the McGrady deal in order to land Martin, who will partner with Aaron Brooks in the backcourt to provide Houston with perimeter scoring to balance the return of Yao Ming next year.      Martin joined Jamison and Caron Butler (sent by Washington to Dallas last week) as the only 20-ppg-capable scorers to be moved at the deadline. Adelman knows exactly what he is getting after coaching Martin in Sacramento as recently as four years ago. Looking ahead to next season, the Rockets hope Martin's three-point range and knack for drawing fouls with his unique ball fake will put the Rockets in the bonus early each quarter, when Yao's ability to convert free throws makes them a dangerous team. Of course, everything depends on Yao's recovery from foot surgery as he enters the final year of his contract next season.      &#149; Elsewhere ... Two challengers made deals that could boost them into the conference finals. Dallas tried to move into position to become the No. 2 contender in the West by acquiring Butler and Brendan Haywood from Washington, though carving out a role for Butler won't take care of itself.      The Celtics settled on an apparently minor deal for Nate Robinson that could have a major impact, as he provides much-needed ball handling behind Rajon Rondo as well as energy and scoring off the bench. But Robinson's impact will have little meaning if the Celtics don't renew their commitment to defense by closing up the lane and controlling the defensive boards.      The Bulls and Wizards both created more cap space. Washington did everything it could hope to do short of moving the currently immoveable Gilbert Arenas. The Wizards now enter the summer with upwards of $18 million in space, and while they may not be a preferred destination for free agents, they can just as easily use that space to take on salary via trades. Likewise, Chicago's trades of John Salmons and Tyrus Thomas have left the Bulls with the potential of max space, and they will go after Wade or Johnson this summer in hope of providing point guard Derrick Rose with an elite finisher.      The Bucks took on Salmons' two-year commitment in hope of pushing for the playoffs to give postseason experience to Brandon Jennings and Andrew Bogut. They'll be under the cap going into the new CBA in 2011-12, as will the Kings, who aren't likely to spend their newfound cap space this summer.        As for the current races, Portland and Charlotte filled their frontcourt needs by dealing for Marcus Camby and Tyrus Thomas, respectively, which appears to solidify them as playoff teams this spring.