                        At least four law enforcement officers were in the crowd at a Kentucky cockfight, the Humane Society says. STORY HIGHLIGHTSUndercover footage shows kids, officers at cockfight, animal rights group says.Cockfighting is illegal &quot;cruel blood sport,&quot; Humane Society manager saysKentucky state police investigating, governor says
RELATED TOPICS


Animal Rights

Humane Society of the United States

Kentucky State Police

 (CNN) -- Two roosters tear at each other in a fenced ring in a recent match in Kentucky. But even more shocking than the illegal fight in the ring may be who was in the crowd watching, says the Humane Society of the United States. Camera footage from an undercover operation shows children and uniformed police officers attending the recent cockfight, the Humane Society says. &quot;Cockfighting is a cruel blood sport that is illegal in Kentucky and every other state,&quot; said John Goodwin, manager of animal fighting issues for the group. &quot;Kentucky police officers should not treat this criminal activity with a wink and a nod, and it's another sign that state lawmakers must act to strengthen the penalties for cockfighting.&quot; The video released Tuesday shows fights at a cockfighting pit in Manchester, Kentucky, the Humane Society said. As the roosters thrash at each other, the camera pans to the crowd of dozens gathered, cheering for the birds. At least four law enforcement officers can be seen in the crowd, including a Kentucky state trooper who was talking to a young boy. Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear released a statement about the video. &quot;The Governor has spoken to the Kentucky State Police commissioner. Regarding this incident depicted on video, the Kentucky State Police are conducting an internal inquiry,&quot; the statement said. &quot;However, Kentucky State Police are fully committed to enforcing all criminal laws, including those against animal cruelty.&quot;


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Justice
	
	
		
FBI Report: Violent crime down 6.2% in first half of 2010


Murder victims summed up with a label


Judge in Knox appeal allows new evidence reviews, witnesses


	

  













		





