                     Dick Cheney hospitalizedSTORY HIGHLIGHTSNEW: Cheney to be kept in hospital overnight for tests, family source saysCheney, 69, had four heart attacks from 1978 to 2000Doctors implanted heart monitoring device in 2001Cheney was U.S. vice president from 2001 to 2009
RELATED TOPICS


Dick Cheney

Heart Attacks

George W. Bush

 Washington (CNN) -- Former Vice President Dick Cheney was hospitalized Monday with chest pains, according to his office. Cheney, 69, is resting comfortably at George Washington University Hospital, and his doctors are evaluating the situation, his staff said in a statement. A family source told CNN that Cheney will be kept in the hospital overnight for observation and additional tests. Another source said Cheney is up and in touch with his family and friends. CNN's chief medical correspondent Sanjay Gupta called Cheney's mobility &quot;a good sign.&quot; &quot;If he's up and walking around, talking to friends ... that probably means he's not in the intensive care unit,&quot; he said. &quot;They're not doing active procedures on his heart. He's not on a breathing machine or anything like that. No one ever said he was. It's obviously a good sign.&quot; Cheney has a long history of heart problems. He has suffered four heart attacks dating to 1978, when he was 37. He had his second in 1984 and a third in 1988 before undergoing quadruple bypass surgery to unblock his arteries. His fourth heart attack happened in November 2000, after he was elected vice president. At that time, doctors inserted a stent to open an artery. Doctors in 2001 implanted a heart monitoring device to keep track of his heart rhythm and slow it down if necessary. In 2008, he underwent a procedure to restore his heart to a normal rhythm after doctors found he was experiencing a recurrence of atrial fibrillation. Cheney served under former President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2009. He has been a vocal critic of the current administration since he left office, most recently appearing on ABC's &quot;This Week,&quot; where he railed against President Obama's policies on terror and the Iraq war. He has accused the Obama administration of failing to treat the fight against terrorists as war, citing the decisions to give 9/11 suspect Khalid Sheikh Mohammed a civilian trial, give the failed Christmas Day airline bombing suspect the privileges of the U.S. criminal justice system, and shut down the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Cheney also served in the administrations of former Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush. CNN's John King contributed to this report. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Biden, Cheney spar via talk shows 


Would you know if your heart was in trouble? 


Bill Clinton, fresh out of hospital, eager to go back to work 

  More Politics
	
	
		
Senate reviews START treaty behind closed doors


Bloomberg urges passage of 9/11 health bill


The real threat to health care reform


	

  













		





