  
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


        
	Vancouver 2010
	
		



Day 13 Coverage
			
				

PRICE: Team Canada alters national tone 					

LAYDEN: The Mancuso-Vonn tension 	

FARBER: Parise lifts U.S. by Swiss 	


WINN: Canada-Russia scalper's paradise 	
				
EPSTEIN: Surprises in women's bobsled 		
				

BRIEFING: Mancuso, Vonn in giant slalom 	


FARBER: Canada-Russia is Armageddon 	


WINN: Stars, Stripes and Rings

Follow Ohno, Vonn and more on Twitter 	

SI Writers at the Olympics | BLOG	

									
			


Day 12 Coverage
			
				


SWIFT: An unforgettable short program 	

LAYDEN: Mancuso set to grab spotlight 	


KWAK: U.S. better be ready for Swiss 	

WOLFF: Stunning gaffe costs Dutch gold 	

EPSTEIN: Diabetes didn't stop this athlete 	

WINN: Catching up with Hannah Teter 	


MURPHY: In defense of Vancouver Games 	

WINN: Pinnacle of Olympic Fashion


									
			






				

				
		SI Photos
		
			
								
					

						
							
							Vancouver Games: Day 12						
										

					
							
							Winter Olympics Goalie Masks						
									

			
		
		


				
		SI Video
		
			
								
					
						
							
							Olympic Daily: Bode stumbles, Canada wins						
										
						
							
							Inside the U.S. Alpine Team cover						
									

			
		
		




	


      
  WHISTLER, British Columbia (SI.com) -- It was a rough morning for American skiing.      Lindsey Vonn crashed in her opening run of the Olympic Giant slalom event at Whistler Creekside, losing control around a right turn near the middle of the course, and landing hard on her left hip and finger. She had posted a split time of 0.35 after the third timing position, the best of all the skiers at that point. But the double Olympic medalist will not reach the podium today.     As Vonn was crashing, Julia Mancuso of the U.S. was the next skier on course and had to pull up midway through her run because Vonn was being tended to by race officials. Mancuso ended up at the bottom of the hill and had to return to the top of the course for a later start. Race officials slotted her into the 31st position.      At that point, the course had deteriorated significantly and Mancuso finished with a time of 1:16.42, 1.30 behind Elisabeth Goergl of Austria who led in 1 minute, 15.12 seconds. Taina Barioz of France was 0.02 behind. Kathrin Zettel of Austria was third, 0.16 back. &quot;It's going to be an exciting race,&quot; said Goregl after her run.     Vonn, starting in the 17th position, said she thought she was skiing great and making good turns. She crashed approximately 50 seconds into her course. She eventually got up and skied to the finish. The giant slalom is usually Vonn's worst discipline and she has had trouble finishing the event this year.     Vonn had ice on her right pinky finger after the race and said she was going to shortly undergo an X-ray to surmise the damage. She is scheduled to ski in the slalom on Friday. Mancuso previously said she would bypass that event.      &quot;The course is breaking up at the bottom,&quot; Vonn said. &quot;I got a little bit too inside and lost my outside ski. My knee came up and hit my chin. I got all tangled up and hit the fence. I hurt my finger (pinkie) and need to get it X-rayed. ... I feel terrible for Julia. That's obviously not what I wanted to happen. I wanted to get down and ski well and I wanted her to get down ski well.&quot;     Mancuso is the defending champion in the event, but it will take an extraordinary performance on the second run this afternoon for her to reach the podium. At the Turin Olympics in 2006, Mancuso, then 21, rescued the U.S. women's ski team from a complete shutout, winning a gold medal in the giant slalom with a second run through heavy snowfall. 