     STORY HIGHLIGHTSJapanese fisheries ministry branch accuses group of jeopardizing fleets' safetyAnti-whaling group often uses butyric acid in protest activitiesWhaling is allowed under international law when done for scientific reasons
RELATED TOPICS


International Whaling Commission

Japan

Nature and the Environment

 Tokyo, Japan (CNN) -- Anti-whaling activists in the Antarctic Ocean threw butyric acid and fired paint guns at a Japanese whaling ship, which then repelled the protesters with water cannons. The confrontation on Wednesday is the latest in an ongoing feud between Japanese whaling fleets and conservation agencies -- especially the hardline Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. Japan's Institute of Cetacean Research, a branch of the fisheries ministry that deals with whaling, accuses Sea Shepherd -- who it said was behind Wednesday's attack -- of jeopardizing the safety of fleets that are conducting research legally.  Sea Shepherd uses its boats to interfere with whaling and fishing boats, and its efforts have included ramming a Portuguese whaler in 1979. Two years ago, Sea Shepherd activists boarded a Japanese ship and handcuffed themselves to the vessel with plastic ties. And on Monday, an activist jumped aboard a Japanese security ship to make a citizen's arrest of its skipper over the sinking of their boat. The group often uses butyric acid, found in rancid butter and vomit and has an unpleasant smell. In the early 1980s, the International Whaling Commission determined that there should be a moratorium on commercial whale hunting. Whaling is allowed under international law when done for scientific reasons, which Japan cites as the legal basis for its hunts. The country's annual hunt kills up to 1,000 whales a year; the fisheries agency insists it wants &quot;sustainable whaling.&quot; Many in the international community believe that such hunts amount to needless slaughter. Critics say that Japan's research is actually a pretext for retrieving whale meat to be sold in markets and restaurants.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Activist boards Japanese whaling ship 

  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  













		





