                        Christoph Waltz has found success this awards season for his work in "Inglourious Basterds" but does he fit The Frisky theory? STORY HIGHLIGHTSThe Frisky is giving readers the inside scoop with theories on winning an OscarTheory #4 states that Best Supporting Actor goes to the creepy guyThe Frisky showcases the previous history of &quot;creepy guys&quot; who've taken the Oscar (The Frisky) -- The way I see it, this year's Best Supporting Actor race is between two actors--Christoph Waltz, who won both the SAG and Golden Globe for his role in &quot;Inglourious Basterds,&quot; and Stanley Tucci, who was the one good part of the fairly universally panned &quot;The Lovely Bones.&quot;  Why these two? Because the characters on screen gave the viewers the heebie-jeebies. See, the Academy has shown itself to be fairly predictable over time. For Best Actress, the Academy loves America's sweethearts. For Best Actor, they tend to vote for the guy who's been nominated the most times. For Best Supporting Actress, they like an out-of-nowhere star. But for Best Supporting Actor, nothing wracks up the votes like playing an exceptionally creepy character. Let's take a look how the Creepy Effect has played out in the past, and what it could mean in this year's race. The Frisky: Johnny Depp inspired by Madonna? What's really behind the crazed characters of Tim Burton's &quot;Alice In Wonderland&quot; Heath Ledger in 2009 Few things on film have ever been as unsettling as Heath Ledger's genius turn as The Joker in &quot;The Dark Knight.&quot; Seriously, just thinking of that scene with his head hanging out of the car window gives me the willies. Add on the fact that Ledger tragically died before the movie was released, and is it any wonder he got Best Supporting Actor posthumously? The Frisky: Oscar prediction no. 1 -- Best Actress will go to ... America's sweetheart Sandra Bullock Javier Bardem in 2008 The year before, Javier Bardem played a ruthless assassin in &quot;No Country for Old Men&quot; with an off-kilter bowl cut, a habit of making people flip a coin for their life, and the ultimate weapon--a cattle gun. Let's just say you would never want to meet his character in a dark alley. Or a brightly lit room for that matter. Naturally, he won Best Supporting Actor. The Frisky: Ungrateful stars who dissed their own movies Kevin Spacey in 1996  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Tarantino talks Oscar

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Oscar nominees do lunch

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Movie stars of the future

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Academy Awards

Celebrity News


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



&quot;The Usual Suspects&quot; remains one of my favorite movies of all time. And what made the film? Kevin Spacey as a bumbling con-man who (SPOILER ALERT!) turns out to be the big, bad Keyser S&ouml;ze, who wreaked havoc throughout the flick. Shocker. He got Best Supporting Actor in 1996 for the role. Martin Landau in 1994 One of the first shots of Martin Landau in &quot;Ed Wood&quot; shows him in a coffin. The wackadoodle character got Landau the golden man two years before Spacey's win for playing his odd-ball genius. Christopher Walken in 1979 Christopher Walken won Best Supporting Actor in 1979 for his role as the war-damaged Nick Chevotarevich in &quot;The Deer Hunter.&quot; Walken's beady eyes made the Russian roulette climax of the flick all the more disturbing. And, of course, the Academy dug it. The Frisky: Anne Hathaway left the Catholic Church for her gay brother Tucci's serial killer will win over Waltz's Nazi in 2010 So which character is creepier: Christoph Waltz's cold-blooded Nazi or Stanley Tucci's serial killer of teenagers? Both are pretty awful and odds are currently favoring Waltz, but I'm gonna go with Tucci, for dismembering a 14-year-old and hiding her body in a safe. I think this could be one of few categories where the Academy Awards breaks from the pattern set by the SAG and Golden Globe Awards. Guess we'll have to watch on Sunday to find out for sure.TM & &#169 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
A look at the Dancing With The Stars playing field The Frisky


Squeal with "Glee": The tour is coming to a city near you The Frisky


The "Jersey Shore" goes to the Oscars, kind of The Frisky

  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Andrew Morton to write book about William, Kate's wedding


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


Box office: "Tron: Legacy" races to top with $43.6 million


	

  













		





