 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


             No deal: Oilers defenseman Sheldon Souray, one of the more enticing pieces of trade bait, is out for the year with a hand infection.Andy Devlin/Getty Images     

  Well, the gavel's finally come down, putting a merciful end to a deadline day as dull as a community theater production of Ibsen's The Young Men's League. Even a record volume -- 30 deals involving 52 players -- wasn't enough to compensate for a pronounced lack of wattage.      While no seismic power shifts resulted from today's tinkering, there were a couple teams who appear to have bettered their circumstances.       The Penguins added a legitimate top-six winger in Alexei Ponikarovsky and a useful defender in Jordan Leopold to bolster their bid to repeat as Stanley Cup champs. The Capitals brought in character forwards Eric Belanger and Scott Walker to add depth and energy and maybe improve the penalty kill. The Kings took the same route, acquiring Jeff Halpern and Fredrik Modin. And the Coyotes went bonkers with the NHL's money, making moves to bolster a lackluster power play.      Biggest surprises? Dan Hamhuis and Tomas Vokoun stayed put. The Blackhawks were telling the truth when they said they were satisfied with their goaltending. And not one single first round pick changed hands.      Which of these deals will look best in the short run? I really like Buffalo picking up Raffi Torres and Anaheim grabbing Aaron Ward and Lubomir Visnovsky. Both teams look like nastier first round opponents. In the long run, I like the Avalanche. Peter Mueller may have lost his appetite for the game now, but he's moving into a fresh environment. Handled properly, he might get back on track and develop into the world-class talent he looked to be as a junior.      Here's how the day unfolded, moving from most recent deals to earliest:  TRADE:    KINGS get: LW Fredrik Modin      BLUE JACKETS get: 2010 seventh round pick      MY TAKE: With Modin and Jeff Halpern now in the fold, the Kings can limit the exposure of rookies like Rich Clune and Oscar Moller at playoff time. That assumes, of course, that the oft-injured Modin makes it to the West Coast in one piece. READ THE NEWS STORY  TRADE:    COYOTES get: LW Petteri Nokelainen DUCKS get: 2010 sixth round pick      MY TAKE: Another failed first round pick of the Islanders (16th overall, 2004), Nokelainen has hung around the fringes as a checking line center. He's strictly a depth addition for the Coyotes, who are spending the NHL's cash like it was an unexpected earmark.  TRADE:    PREDATORS get: LW Dustin Boyd FLAMES get: 2010 fourth round pick      MY TAKE: Not to overstate the value of Boyd, a player who has battled confidence issues this season, but, geez, this looks like an underpayment on the part of Nashville. At his best, the 23-year-old Boyd has decent wheels, a set of 15-goal mitts, and is solid on the penalty kill. He needs to gain strength to do a better job of protecting the puck, but that's part of the development process. He won't be a star, but he's a legitimate third liner.      From Calgary's perspective, they move out a potential RFA and create space for top prospect Mikael Backlund to earn a full-time job with the big club. All things being equal, that's not much in the way of motivation.  TRADE:    FLAMES get: D Steve Staios OILERS get: D Aaron Johnson, 2010 third round pick      MY TAKE: The first-ever deal between these two bitter, provincial rivals? I can't think of another one. Send me an email if I'm wrong. The Flames get a veteran defender who competes hard every night and brings leadership and stability to the third pairing. For the Oilers, this is simply a salary dump. Staios has another year left on a deal that pays him $2.7 million. Johnson is a depth defender whose contract expires this season. They'll take the third-rounder, the cap space and run.  TRADE:    CAPITALS get: D Joe Corvo HURRICANES get: D Brian Pothier, LW Oskar Osala, 2010 second round pick      MY TAKE: Instead of snapping up a proven goaltender or the defensive battleship that most pundits thought he'd target, GM George McPhee went for another puck-moving blueliner. Corvo is a high-risk, high-reward type who can really bring it from the point and should add depth to Washington's power play, but he has a well-earned reputation as a turnover machine whose defensive positioning can be exploited by speed. Mike Green, Jr.? Hey, he might be an ideal fit for this team, after all.       Pothier is small but useful defender whose efficiency has been curtailed by concussion issues. If he can get his head together, so to speak, he can be a top-four guy in Carolina. Osala is a mammoth winger (6-4, 220) who does his best work along the boards and isn't afraid to camp out in front of the net. He's been a decent scorer with the AHL's Hershey Bears, netting 23 goals last season and 15 so far this year. He has the look of a solid third-liner in the NHL, with the potential to mature into a top-six role.       Pothier and Corvo are expiring contracts while Osala has one more year on his entry-level deal. Carolina also announced they've dealt Andrew Alberts to Vancouver for a third-round pick. READ THE NEWS STORY  TRADE:    DUCKS get: D Lubomir Visnovsky OILERS get: D Ryan Whitney, 2010 sixth round pick               The Oilers are hoping that a change of scenery will revive Ryan Whitney's game.Paul Hebert/Icon SMI  MY TAKE: The Ducks pick up a smaller, more offensive-minded defender who adds some zip to their 20th-ranked power play. He's signed for three more years, so he'll be a key blueline component moving forward, especially with Scott Niedermayer likely to retire after this season.       The Oilers saved about $1.6 million in salary commitment for the next three years, but more importantly, they changed the look of their own blue line with the bigger, younger Whitney. Even though he was named as an injury replacement to the American Olympic team, things haven't gone well for him since being dealt to Anaheim from Pittsburgh last season. Might have been a confidence issue -- he looked very shaky in his limited exposure in Vancouver and was directly responsible for Canada's second goal in the gold medal match. A change of scenery, and a different coach's voice, might be what he needs to get his game back on track. READ THE NEWS STORY  NOTES:    Just told that Milan Jurcina has been sent back to Washington by Columbus. No word yet on the return...or why they'd take him back. There had to be a reason the Capitals were willing to part with him earlier this year. His game hasn't exactly improved since December. Jurcina was diagnosed with a sports hernia. The Caps, apparently, were aware of this and he's expected to miss four-to-six weeks.      Interesting injury news: TSN is reporting that Edmonton defender Sheldon Souray is out for the year with a serious hand infection, so he won't be dealt today.   TRADE:    SABRES get: LW Raffi Torres BLUE JACKETS get: D Nathan Paetsch, 2010 second-round pick      MY TAKE: Smart, smart move by Sabres GM Darcy Regier, who fills an obvious need for grit and secondary scoring. Torres has 19 goals this season despite playing just over 13 minutes a game. He's physical, quick, plays both ways and can fit in on the second or third line. It's not the sort of deal that makes Buffalo a contender, but they'll be a much more miserable opponent come playoff time.      For Columbus, this is all about adding a pick this summer. Word was they were pushing hard for a first-rounder, but despite widespread interest, other GMs (wisely) wouldn't bite at that price. The Jackets get a second (how many of those have switched hands already today?) and Paetsch, at 27, is pretty much settled into his career as a six/seven-type defender who can also move up to play a bit of wing on the fourth line. He'll give it all he's got...but he hasn't got that much to give. READ THE NEWS STORY  TRADE    SABRES get: 2010 third- and fourth-round picks THRASHERS get: LW Clarke MacArthur READ THE NEWS STORY  TRADE:    FLAMES get: G Vesa Toskala DUCKS get: G Curtis McElhinney      MY TAKE: The Flames didn't trust McElhinney to back up the criminally overworked Miikka Kiprusoff. The Ducks needed about a week after picking Toskala up from Toronto to figure out that he was toxic. This is just one team's problem for another, but give the edge to the Ducks for dumping Toskala's $4 million salary and possibly setting themselves up for one more deal.  TRADE:    CAPITALS get: C Eric Belanger WILD get: 2010 second round pick        MY TAKE: Anyone else waiting for the other shoe to drop? Belanger is a nice player -- great speed, a diligent checker, better than average in the dots -- but adding him and Scott Walker to the mix makes for a very crowded group of forwards. At this point, a deal involving one of the team's youngsters (Tomas Fleischmann? Eric Fehr?) for a top-four defender seems almost inevitable. READ THE NEWS STORY