                           These devices record a variety of information to help quantify athletic performances. STORY HIGHLIGHTSMotion sensors capture an athlete's every twist and turnComputer animated replay and Google Earth paths included in softwareU.S. Olympic bobsledding team used black boxes for training
RELATED TOPICS


Extreme Sports

Science and Technology

Skiing

Snowboarding

Winter Sports

 (PopSci.com) -- An airplane's flight data recorder, or black box, saves input from many sensors so that pilots can reconstruct and analyze a trip after the fact, whether to find problems or certify that they completed a record-setting route.  Now extreme-sports athletes can quantify a wicked ride the same way. Two new gadgets each pack a heap of sensors -- GPS to measure direction and speed, accelerometers to measure tilt and pitch, gyroscopes to measure rotation -- that record data throughout a snowboard, wakeboard or other sports session.  Afterward, software replays the moves on a computer, complete with animated gear. It can also export the files to Google Earth to show paths drawn into actual landscapes.  Coaches can use the devices to study and improve technique. Athletes can do something even more satisfying -- prove their gravity-defying stunts to pals. Popsci.com: Head-Up Display Brings Ski Goggles Into the Future The waterproof ShadowBox was created for wakeboarders, who can use it to judge whether they truly nailed a 720 McTwist. But now users can mount it to almost any equipment, from skateboards to bikes, and it adjusts its measurements and onscreen animations to suit the selected sport. For instance, a barometric pressure sensor kicks in to gauge elevation in hang gliding, and a compass logs precise snowboard orientation.  Popsci.com: Robot Skier Kills the Bunny Hills, Not Ready For Black Diamond The U.S. bobsledding team used a version of the Ripxx to train for the Olympics. The consumer model, worn on the body, focuses on more-traditional winter activities. It comes with detailed maps of popular ski and snowboard resorts, so when wearers download data from a run, it draws their avatar into an exact replica of a trail, letting them pinpoint with unprecedented accuracy why a jump failed or succeeded.Copyright &copy; 2009 Popular Science


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
In Depth: Winter Olympics 


Winter sports evolve to lessen danger 


U.S. Bobsled official site 

  More Sport
	
	
		
Tevez makes u-turn over Manchester City future


Inter Milan coach Benitez on the brink of dismissal


South Africa claim 1-0 lead after crushing top-ranked India


	

  













		





