                                      Rep. Bart Stupak of Michigan and 12 other House Democrats attended the signing of the executive order. STORY HIGHLIGHTSSigning of order was closed to the news mediaRep. Bart Stupak and his anti-abortion Democratic House colleagues attendedStupak said the order makes clear that current law applies to the new law Washington (CNN) -- President Obama signed an executive order Wednesday ensuring that existing limits on the federal funding of abortion remain in place under the new health care reform law. Unlike the signing of the health care bill Tuesday -- which was conducted under the glare of television cameras -- Wednesday's event was closed to the news media.  It was attended by Rep. Bart Stupak of Michigan and 12 other House Democrats opposed to abortion rights, without whose help the landmark overhaul bill would not have passed, political observers say. The White House has said the executive order reaffirms abortion funding restrictions first enacted in 1977. &quot;While the legislation as written maintains current law, the executive order provides additional safeguards to ensure that the status quo is upheld and enforced, and that the health care legislation's restrictions against the public funding of abortions cannot be circumvented,&quot; the White House said previously. Stupak said the order makes very clear that the current law applies to the new law. &quot;I have said from the start that my goal was to see health care pass while maintaining the principle of the sanctity of life,&quot; he said Tuesday.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Health care bill signing

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Health care reform and you

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Political duo talks health care

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Barack Obama

Bart Stupak

Abortion


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



At one point, the abortion issue nearly derailed the reform bill. But after Obama promised the executive order, the anti-abortion Democrats switched their votes to &quot;yes&quot; to help pass the measure pass 219-212 on Sunday night. Stupak had led the anti-abortion Democrats in opposition to the new health care law because, he claimed, it would allow federal funding for abortions beyond the current limits of cases of rape or incest, or if the woman's life is in danger. The controversy centered on whether the bill would force all taxpayers into paying for abortions, by subsidizing insurance policies that pay for the procedure and by funding federal health clinics that might offer abortions. Leading up to the vote Sunday night, the main focus of anti-abortion activists was the insurance &quot;exchanges&quot; created by the law, the new marketplaces in which businesses and individuals will be able to buy insurance. Under the exchanges, there must be a plan that offers abortion coverage and another that doesn't, according to the measure. To appease abortion opponents, Democrats also added language requiring anyone whose policy does cover abortion to pay -- separately -- a small surcharge, with the funds kept separate. Stupak and other abortion opponents also complained about a lack of anti-abortion restrictions for new, federally run community health clinics, which would receive $7 billion under the legislation. Obama's executive order specifically addressed those concerns.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Politics
	
	
		
Senate reviews START treaty behind closed doors


Bloomberg urges passage of 9/11 health bill


The real threat to health care reform


	

  













		





