                        Japan's All Nippon Airways will have women-only lavatories on international routes starting Monday. STORY HIGHLIGHTSJapan's All Nippon Airways will introduce women-only lavatories on international routes MondayCompany: Move comes in response to &quot;numerous requests from passengers&quot;One women-only lavatory will be designated in the rear section of the passenger cabinMen can use it only in an emergency or if there are few women on the flight
RELATED TOPICS


Air Travel

All Nippon Airways Co. Ltd.

 (CNN) -- Airplane lavatories are among the few unisex bathrooms most people encounter, but that's about to change for some air travelers. The Japanese airline All Nippon Airways will introduce women-only lavatories on its international routes starting Monday. The move comes in response to &quot;numerous requests from passengers for this service,&quot; the company said in a statement. Many women called for the airline to give them their own lavatories in a 2007 survey of customers, said ANA spokesman Justin C. Massey. &quot;They didn't list any specific complaints. ...  It was just more a matter of general preference,&quot; Massey added. One women-only lavatory will be designated in the rear section of the passenger cabin and will display a pink version of the universal sign for a ladies' room as a way to let male travelers know to look for another option. Women can still use any other lavatory. While restricting men from using the women-only bathroom, the airline has spelled out exceptions to the rule, such when required for safety reasons or when a passenger is not feeling well or &quot;when there are very few female passengers and the women-only designation has been lifted for the flight.&quot; There are no plans to designate men-only lavatories, Massey said. There was mixed reaction to the announcement on FlyerTalk, an online community for frequent fliers. &quot;The lavatories are scarce enough already. The last thing we need is more restriction of choice,&quot; one poster wrote. &quot;I've never understood gender segregation of single-person bathrooms,&quot; another said. &quot;Cleanliness is probably the main reason,&quot; countered a third poster. ANA also made news last fall when it encouraged passengers to use restrooms before boarding to reduce the weight of planes as part of its &quot;ecological travel on the ground and in the sky&quot; campaign.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Travel
	
	
		
Heavy snow snarls airports, roads in Europe


No flight to catch: A glimpse at airport employees, culture


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


	  













		





