                   Effort to ban cat, dog meatSTORY HIGHLIGHTSChinese government is considering legislation that would ban eating cats and dogsCat meat can be found on menus in China, Vietnam, parts of South AmericaBan on eating dog, cat meat part of a larger proposal to toughen animal welfare lawsDog and cat meat has become more difficult to find in anticipation of the new ban Guangzhou, China (CNN) -- Dogs bark and whine behind high chain-link fences, some of them gnawing the wire so hard they bleed at the mouths while cats packed into crowded cages cower in fear if anyone approaches.  This isn't a pet store -- it's a meat market in Guangzhou, a city in southern China where eating cats and dogs is common practice. At the Han River Dog Meat Restaurant in central Guangzhou, diners can choose from a long list of menu items, including dog soup, dog steak, dog with tofu and more. In the kitchen, the chef chops up meat for dog hot pot, one of the more popular dishes. Most customers like it spicy. &quot;Dog meat is good for your health and metabolism,&quot; explains Li, the hostess who declined to give her first name. &quot;In the summer it helps you sweat.&quot; Should cat and dog meat be banned? But these local restaurants may have to find a new specialty. The Chinese government is considering legislation that would make eating cats and dogs illegal. Professor Chang Jiwen of the Chinese Academy of the Social Sciences is one of the law's top campaigners. &quot;Cats and dogs are loyal friends to humans,&quot; he said. &quot;A ban on eating them would show China has reached a new level of civilization.&quot;  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					  Gallery:  Cat and dog meat in China

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					 I would never eat dog meat--Louisa Yong, cocker spaniel owner
 
				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


China

Dogs

Cats


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Eating dog meat is a long-standing culinary tradition not just in China, but also Korea. Cat meat can be found on the menu in China, Vietnam and even parts of South America. The Chinese government has signaled a willingness to take the meat off the market. To avoid upsetting international visitors during the Beijing Olympics, officials ordered dog meat off the menus at local markets. Officials in Guangzhou have warned vendors to stop selling it ahead of the Asian Games which will be held there later this year. The ban on eating dog and cat meat is part of a larger proposal to toughen laws on animal welfare. Individual violators could face up to 15 days in prison and a small fine. Businesses found guilty of selling the meat risk fines up to 500,000 yuan ($73,500.) The legislation is gaining support from China's growing number of pet owners. With living standards rising and disposable income growing, more Guangzhou residents are investing in house pets. &quot;I would never eat dog meat,&quot; said Louisa Yong, as she clutches her pet cocker spaniel. &quot;It's so cruel!&quot; Meat vendors have a different view. &quot;The dogs you raise at home, you shouldn't eat,&quot; said Pan, a butcher who also declined to give his first name. &quot;The kind raised for eating, we can eat those.&quot; Many of the dogs and cats sold for meat are specially raised on farms. But Chang said there is always a chance they're someone's lost or stolen pet. In anticipation of the new ban, dog and cat meat has become more difficult to find, though some vendors say they will keep selling it as long as they can. &quot;The legislation will definitely affect our restaurant,&quot; said Li. &quot;We'll just wait to see the result.&quot; And it seems restaurants don't necessarily need to change their menus anytime soon. According to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the law prohibiting cat and dog meat could take as long as a decade to pass. Until then it's a la carte, from the cage into the kitchen.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
China&nbsp;Special coverage 

  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  



















		





