                   Deadly stampede in IndiaSTORY HIGHLIGHTSThe incident occurred when the main gate of the temple came downAmong the dead were 37 children; the rest were womenAt least 60 others were injured in the frenzyFree utensils and food were being offered in a memorial service New Delhi, India (CNN)  -- As many as 63 people -- most of them children -- were killed Thursday when a stampede broke out at a temple offering free utensils and food in northern India, authorities said.  The incident occurred when the main gate of the temple in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh state came down as worshippers rushed for their share of meals and kitchen vessels, according to police.  Other officials gave conflicting numbers for the death toll, saying 61 people had been killed. Among the dead were 37 children, said I.P. Singh, a deputy police superintendent of Pratapgarh. The rest were women, he added. The temple, also a religious retreat belonging to a local holy man, was holding a memorial service in honor of a dead woman, state police official Brij Lal told CNN.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: India temple stampede

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Uttar Pradesh

New Delhi

India


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



At least 60 others were injured in the frenzy, according to Singh. Authorities are investigating the incident. Thursday's crush in Uttar Pradesh revived memories of a 2004 stampede in the same state that killed more than 20 women jostling to grab free saris offered at the birthday celebration of a local politician. In India, religious events of different faiths are usually marked with ritual feasts. Large congregations often pack venues, which sometimes have limited infrastructure to hold massive crowds. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  



















		





