                  Pediatrician accused of abuseSTORY HIGHLIGHTSDr. Earl Bradley faces 471 counts in the alleged abuse of 103 childrenIndictment is based on &quot;video and digital evidence,&quot; official saysDoctor also has licenses in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Florida
RELATED TOPICS


Sexual Offenses

Child Abuse

Delaware

 (CNN) -- A Delaware pediatrician has been indicted on 471 felony counts in the alleged sexual abuse of his patients, prosecutors announced Monday. The Sussex County grand jury indictment accuses Dr. Earl Bradley, 56, who has had a practice in Lewes, Delaware, for more than 10 years, of victimizing 103 children -- all but one girls. The charges range from rape and sexual exploitation of a child to endangering child welfare and assault. Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden told CNN Radio the indictment is based on &quot;video and digital evidence&quot; seized from Bradley's home and medical practice in December. Authorities have not ruled out additional charges, he added. &quot;The reality is that as a prosecutor, the rules prohibit me from telling you exactly how I feel -- and I'm feeling a great deal today,&quot; Biden said. Bradley also has medical licenses in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Florida. Authorities have said they have contacted officials in those states. He was initially arrested and charged in December. Bradley's attorney, Eugene Maurer Jr., said he would base his client's defense on mental health. &quot;Most of the evidence in this case comes from videotapes -- it's kind of hard to argue with videotapes,&quot; Maurer said, adding, &quot;The issue in this case is going to come down to his mental health at the time.&quot; Biden said Bradley will be arraigned within four to six weeks.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Justice
	
	
		
Man who wrote 'how-to' for pedophiles arrested


Murder victims summed up with a label


Judge in Knox appeal allows new evidence reviews, witnesses


	

  













		





