                    Snow covers Pennsylvania roadsSTORY HIGHLIGHTSNew Jersey Transit lifts widespread bus service suspension; trains delayedMinor delays reported for motorists using New York City's bridges, tunnelsPower out for tens of thousands in Westchester County, NY, and in New JerseyMore than 1,000 flights canceled at NY area airports; traffic slow in Pennsylvania, NJ, Delaware (CNN) -- The third major snowstorm of the month threw a wrench into travel by air, rail and road in and around New York and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Friday. The New York City area's three major airports remain open, but more than 1,000 flights were canceled Friday for the second day in a row, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said. Delta Air Lines canceled 500 flights Friday systemwide. Most were in the Northeast, Delta spokeswoman Susan Elliott said. American Airlines and American Eagle have canceled about 350 flights. The bulk of those were in and out of New York, with some cancellations in Washington and Philadelphia, spokesman Tim Smith said. iReporter stuck at JFK Flights bound for JFK, Newark, Philadelphia International, Boston Logan and Washington Dulles airports were experiencing weather delays Friday afternoon, according to the Federal Aviation Administration's Web site.   



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Heavy snow hits Northeast

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Winter Weather

Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

Pennsylvania

New Jersey

Delaware


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Customers are urged to contact their airline before heading for the airport. Airlines generally allow passengers to change flights without penalty when a winter weather system disrupts schedules.  On the ground, New Jersey Transit lifted a widespread suspension of bus service Friday, but certain routes still were not running. Commuter train service was delayed in some areas and suspended on the Port Jervis Line because of storm damage. Minor delays were reported for motorists using New York City's bridges and tunnels. No cars in New York? In Pennsylvania, restrictions for certain commercial vehicles traveling on Interstates 380, 80 and 84 were lifted Friday afternoon, according to the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. The department continued to urge motorists to avoid travel unless absolutely necessary. iReporter documents 200-mile drive through heavy snow Highway authorities in Delaware reported weather-related delays and road closures. Con Edison reported 36,500 customers without power in New York's Westchester County on Friday afternoon. More than 10,000 homes were without power in New Jersey, according to the state's Board of Public Utilities.CNN's Evan Buxbaum and Marnie Hunter contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Travel
	
	
		
Heavy snow snarls airports, roads in Europe


No flight to catch: A glimpse at airport employees, culture


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


	  













		





