                         A positive perspective about yourself and  the men around you will result in positive dating results, says expert. STORY HIGHLIGHTSExpert: Your attitude about dating may affect your love life&quot;Unlucky in love&quot; may just mean she has poor taste in men Wear &quot;Always the friend&quot; label and most men won't see you as a sexy woman 
RELATED TOPICS


Relationships

Dating

 (OPRAH.com) -- Which of the following statements most accurately reflects your attitude toward dating? &#8226; Dating is funny &#8226; I'm learning a lot: Where I am is exactly where I need to be &#8226; I'm a great catch and attract great people &#8226; I have faith: I know in my heart it will all work out &#8226; Dating sucks &#8226; I'm losing patience &#8226; I'm unlucky in love &#8226; I'm losing faith: No good guys are left Last year, I worked with &quot;Heather,&quot; who checked off every negative perspective I offered. &quot;Yep!&quot; she said when I read, &quot;Dating sucks.&quot; &quot;Very true!&quot; she added when I got to &quot;I'm losing patience.&quot; And when I ended with, &quot;I'm losing faith: No good guys are left,&quot; she paused for a moment...and started to cry. I asked Heather to justify the perspective to me. Why did dating suck? Why was she losing patience and faith?  With tears streaming down her face, she admitted that she never imagined she'd still be single at 39. I asked her why, in her opinion, she was single, and she explained that she's &quot;unlucky in love&quot; -- that things never work out with her dates and that the men she likes overlook her or cheat on her.  I challenged her and asked if it was possible that her dating success was less about luck and more about her choices in men, but Heather insisted she was cursed in some way. &quot;Unlucky in love&quot; was Heather's love label, and she was sticking to it. Oprah.com: How to get lucky in love and life I instructed Heather to pick a more positive perspective from the list and justify it to me -- even if she did not initially agree with it.  She quickly chose &quot;Dating is funny&quot; and proceeded to tell me a hysterical story about a blind date she had had a few weeks prior. When the bill for their coffees arrived, her date mentioned that her portion was $4.82. She didn't have correct change so gave him a $10 bill, and he took it.  &quot;The guy made money on our date!&quot; she laughed. Heather said she has an entire repertoire of bad dating tales and could do a comedy tour with her material. Oprah.com: The bad date escape route Next, I asked Heather to try on the love label, &quot;Where I am is exactly where I need to be,&quot; but this label did not stick. Heather insisted that it was not in her life plan to be without a partner at her age, and she resented the fact that she was still single.  She admitted that she finds it hard to get motivated to participate in interesting activities because she does not have someone special to share great moments with. She told me about how hot she was in college and how many men liked her then. She painted a picture of the future she imagined she would have with a family of her own. She was frustrated that she was not closer to realizing this goal. Heather was living her life on rewind, pause and fast-forward -- not realizing that being present and living life on &quot;play&quot; is more fulfilling. As an added bonus, Heather would undoubtedly attract more men when she was present and enjoying her life in real time. Oprah.com: Reinvent your dating rules I challenged Heather and asked her to justify the positive perspective I offered, even if she did not agree with it.  &quot;Well, if I settled down years ago, I may not have realized my professional goals. Also, I'd like to thank some of the jerks I've dated since they taught me what to look for and what to avoid. What if I married and had kids with John? That would've been a disaster. Where I am is where I need to be. I'm much more open and ready now to find a healthy relationship.&quot; Heather asserted this perspective with more confidence than her &quot;unlucky in love&quot; label. I could tell she believed it. After justifying both sides, one that reinforced how difficult dating is and one that reaffirmed her faith in the process, I asked Heather which perspective she preferred.  She chose &quot;I'm learning a lot: Where I am is exactly where I need to be&quot; because it would make dating more enjoyable and relieve some of the pressure she had been putting on herself. It would also make her appear less needy and negative to the men she hoped to attract. The reality is that all of the love labels from the above list -- from the very best vantage point of dating to the worst -- can be true for you depending on the day (or the hour!). In dating, and in life for that matter, we settle on a perspective and then we collect evidence to support our outlook.  If you believe that all men are jerks, you will inevitably spot all the jerks around town. You may even date a number of them. If you wear the label &quot;Always the friend&quot;, I can assure you that most men won't see you as the sexy woman you are. Like Heather, you may be so accustomed to the negative self-talk that you have forgotten you actually have a choice in the matter! Oprah.com: Fix the broken record in your head Perspective is a choice you make every day. With a little practice, you can teach yourself to reframe a situation to find the lesson, the blessing or at least the humor in dates or relationships that do not work out. Does that mean you have to grin and bear it each time a guy who you would not even consider being with rejects you first? You are certainly entitled to days during which you vent and complain about bad dates, but if you are single and hoping to find a partner, you must commit to wearing a more permanent love label that embraces a positive perspective about yourself, the men around you and the process.  Doing this is easier than you may realize because somewhere inside, you do have faith in the process or you would have already given up on dating completely. My dating dare for you this month is to try on a new positive love label, justify why it's true and commit to saying it every day. Once you do this, notice who you attract and see who shows up. More importantly -- see how you show up.Andrea Syrtash is an author, advice columnist and author of a new book, &quot;He's Just Not Your Type (And That's a Good Thing)&quot;, to be published in April. Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price. That's like getting 18 issues FREE. 

Subscribe now!

TM &amp; &copy; 2010 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Find and keep the love of your life Oprah.com


What to look for in a partner Oprah.com


The art of perfect timing Oprah.com

  More Living
	
	
		
New study finds baby boomers are in a funk


10 surprising books for holiday reading


Pieces of sports history come with a price


	

  













		





