                        A file picture shows the monastery church in Ettal, Germany. STORY HIGHLIGHTSMonastery school raided after former students claim abuseAllegations date back to 1950s, 1970s and 1980sGermany's Catholic Church hit by increasing number of sex abuse claims
RELATED TOPICS


Germany

The Roman Catholic Church

Pope Benedict XVI

 Berlin, Germany (CNN) -- Authorities have raided a monastery in southern Germany as part of a probe into allegations that priests sexually abused children there, prosecutors said. Eight former students at the Ettal Abbey boarding school have reported that they were abused in 1954 and in the 1970s and '80s, the abbey has said in a statement. The head of the monastery and the school headmaster stepped down last week. Investigators with the Munich State Prosecutors Office visited the Benedictine Abbey of Ettal on Tuesday afternoon as part of their ongoing investigation into allegations of sexual abuse of underage children by priests there. Authorities are now assessing evidence collected at the abbey, the prosecutors said. No arrests have been made in the investigation involving Ettal. The investigation unfolds amid a growing scandal involving allegations of sexual abuse within the Catholic Church in Germany. Nearly every day since the end of January, people have come forward to report cases of sexual abuse by Catholic priests in Germany. News reports put the number of cases at about 150. Germany's highest-ranking Catholic, Freiburg Archbishop Robert Zoellitsch, has addressed the problem. &quot;I apologize in the name of the church in Germany to all those who became the victims of such crimes,&quot; he said recently. &quot;Sexual abuse weighs extremely heavily in the context of the church because children and youth put so much trust in priests,&quot; he said. &quot;There must be no sexual abuse -- especially in the church.&quot; He also said he would raise the subject with Pope Benedict XVI when he visits him in March.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  













		





