                           The Nicholas, which sunk a suspected pirate skiff Thursday after taking fire, is part of the U.S. military's Africa Command. STORY HIGHLIGHTSNEW: Suspects may be sent to Kenya to be tried by piracy court, Pentagon saysUSS Nicholas reports taking fire from suspected pirate skiff west of the SeychellesNicholas boarding team detained 3 people on skiff, 2 on &quot;mother ship,&quot; Navy statement saysDetainees will &quot;remain in U.S. custody on board Nicholas,&quot; statement says
RELATED TOPICS


Pirates

U.S. Navy Activities

Seychelles

 (CNN) -- A group of suspected pirates was captured Thursday after attacking a U.S. Navy frigate in the Indian Ocean, according to a statement released by the U.S. Sixth Fleet. The USS Nicholas reported taking fire from a suspected pirate skiff shortly after midnight local time west of the Seychelles, the statement said. The Nicholas quickly returned fire and began pursuing the skiff, which was eventually disabled. A boarding team from the Nicholas subsequently captured and detained three people, the statement said. The team discovered ammunition and several cans of fuel aboard the skiff, which was later sunk by the Nicholas. Two more suspected pirates were captured on a confiscated &quot;mother ship,&quot; the statement said. The detainees will &quot;remain in U.S. custody on board Nicholas until a determination is made regarding their disposition,&quot; it said. The Pentagon is determining its next steps, and the suspects may be sent to Kenya to be tried in a piracy court there, Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said Thursday  The Nicholas, based in Norfolk, Virginia, is part of the U.S. military's Africa Command. The waters off the coast of Somalia -- the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean -- have been plagued by Somali pirates over the last couple of years. To crack down on piracy, the international community has adopted measures including naval escorts and expanded monitoring. Last week, one pirate was killed and several others were detained after a private security team thwarted an attack against a Panamanian-flagged cargo ship, the MV Almezaan. A European Union naval force was called in to assist the vessel.CNN's Mike Mount contributed to this report. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Pirate killed in failed hijacking off Somalia, EU says 


Fishermen saved after pirates leave them to die 


EU: Pirates release ship after ransom paid 

  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  













		





