                  Charges after Badu strips in publicSTORY HIGHLIGHTSCitation of misdemeanor disorderly conduct has been mailed to Erykah BaduThe singer shed her clothes as she walked through Dealey Plaza in Dallas, TexasBadu was filming a music video in the March 17 incidentIf convicted, Badu could be fined $500, police said
RELATED TOPICS


Erykah Badu

Celebrity News

Dallas (Texas)

 (CNN)  -- Erykah Badu's naked stroll through downtown Dallas, Texas, for a music video has earned her a disorderly conduct citation. The singer shed her clothes as she walked through Dealey Plaza until she was nude and then fell near where President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. Badu said the video was &quot;shot guerrilla style,&quot; without a crew and in one take March 17. A Dallas Police spokeswoman said earlier in the week that they wanted to press charges against Badu because children were present, but no one had called police or filed a complaint that day. Police now have their witness. &quot;One witness did come forward yesterday, thus leading to the charges filed today,&quot; a statement from Dallas Police said Friday. A citation of misdemeanor disorderly conduct has been mailed to Badu, who is a Dallas resident, police said.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
		
		
				
					
					         In a video, Erykah Badu strips in Dealey Plaza, the location of President Kennedy's 1963 assassination. 
				

		
			
		



			
	



&quot;After much discussion, it has been determined that this charge best fits her conduct when she disrobed in a public place without disregard [sic] to other individuals and children who were in close proximity,&quot; the police statement said. If convicted, Badu could be fined $500, police said. &quot;It will be up to her as to how she wants to proceed further with this case,&quot; police said. &quot;She can contest it in a court of law or simply pay the fine.&quot; Badu and her representatives did not immediately respond to a request for comment. She did post a series of short messages on the social networking site Twitter last weekend, soon after the &quot;Window Seat&quot; video was released on her Web site. She tweeted that &quot;there were children there. i prayed they wouldnt b traumatized.&quot;


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Andrew Morton to write book about William, Kate's wedding


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


Box office: "Tron: Legacy" races to top with $43.6 million


	

  













		





