                 Sen. Reid's accidental 'No'STORY HIGHLIGHTS Sen. Harry Reid mistakenly votes &quot;no&quot; on health care reconciliation bill  Reid realized error, quickly changed vote to &quot;yes&quot;   Reid made similar mistake in December when voting on original health care bill  Washington (CNN) -- Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid mistakenly called out &quot;no&quot; Thursday when asked for his vote on the health care reconciliation bill, setting the chamber howling with laughter. Reid voted the wrong way when the clerk called for his vote, realized his error and quickly changed his vote to &quot;yes.&quot; &quot;He did it again,&quot; someone said amid laughter. Reid, who spent months persuading fellow senators to vote &quot;yes&quot; on President Obama's top domestic priority, made the same mistake December 24 when voting on the original health care bill.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Reid's re-election fight

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: House passes health bill changes

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Reid: New 'bill of rights'

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Harry Reid

Health Care Policy

Barack Obama


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



His office said Reid made the gaffe because he was so focused on getting health care passed. What's fueling health care rage? The reconciliation measure, also known as the &quot;fixes&quot; bill, makes changes in the broader health care overhaul measure that Obama enacted Tuesday. The Senate had to vote again on health care after Republicans forced two minor provisions involving student loan funding to be stripped from the bill. The final vote was 56-43 for approval, after which it was sent to the House, which also passed the measure. The &quot;fixes&quot; bill now goes to Obama to be signed into law.CNN's Ted Barrett contributed to this report. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Politics
	
	
		
Senate reviews START treaty behind closed doors


Bloomberg urges passage of 9/11 health bill


The real threat to health care reform


	

  













		





