                         STORY HIGHLIGHTSFive U.S. soldiers wounded in base's &quot;sleeping area&quot;Suicide bomber struck about 9 p.m.; unclear how he got on baseOfficial says attacker wore an Afghan border police uniform Kabul, Afghanistan (CNN)  -- Five U.S. soldiers were wounded Thursday when a suicide bomber attacked a U.S. base, an Afghan official said.  The attacker detonated the bomb about 9 p.m. while in the &quot;sleeping area&quot; on the base, said Paktia province spokesman Roullah Samoun. It is unclear how the bomber got onto the base, but preliminary investigations show the attacker wore an Afghan border police uniform, Samoun said. NATO's International Security Assistance Force said that &quot;several ISAF service members from the United States were injured&quot; in an explosion on their base in eastern Afghanistan's Paktia province. The assistance force did not confirm that the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber. There was no immediate word on the extent of damage.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: U.S. base hit in Afghanistan

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Afghanistan

Central Intelligence Agency


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



An earlier suicide attack on a U.S. base in Afghanistan killed seven CIA officers and a Jordanian army captain on December 30. The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, also on a base in eastern Afghanistan. Former CIA official Robert Richer called the bombing the most loss of life for the agency since the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon, in which eight agents died.CNN's Frederik Pleitgen contributed to this report. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Source: Hunt for bin Laden missed 'real opportunity'


Party members fear chances of Suu Kyi's release are dim


Indonesia Mount Merapi volcano erupts again Friday


	

  



















		





