                        Starting May 1, American Airlines will sell blankets and pillows on domestic flights. STORY HIGHLIGHTS American Airlines to charge $8 for pillow and blanket sets  Charges apply to economy-class customers on domestic flights  Decision to charge driven by economics, spokesman said  (CNN) -- Chilly on the plane? Bring a sweater, or $8 for a blanket-and-pillow pack, if you're on a domestic American Airlines flight. On May 1, the carrier will begin charging for a pillow and blanket set on all domestic flights, as well as those to or from Canada, Mexico, Hawaii, the Caribbean and Central America, according to American Airlines spokesman Tim Smith.  The $8 charge buys a blue fleece blanket and an inflatable neck pillow that fliers can use in flight and keep for future use.  &quot;American evaluates all aspects of the business to ensure that economic decisions are prudent and strategic for the long-term success of the company,&quot; Smith said in an e-mail announcing the decision.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Will passengers pay for pillows?

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Air Travel


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Passengers on international flights or in premium class cabins still will be offered complimentary blankets for use in flight. JetBlue Airways started selling blanket and pillow packs in 2008. US Airways started charging for sleep kits last year.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Air travel frustration spikes with fees, security 


Air France changes heavy passenger policy 


American raises checked-bag fees 

  More Travel
	
	
		
Airport body-scan radiation under scrutiny


Some ready for another cruise even after Carnival voyage


Panama to investigate cruise ship fire


	  













		





