                         Lil Wayne, whose real name is Dwayne Carter, is expected to get a 1-year sentence. STORY HIGHLIGHTSRapper Dwayne Carter will be sentenced for a gun convictionCarter's sentencing was postponed so he could get dental workWork includes removal of diamond-encrusted braces
RELATED TOPICS


Lil' Wayne

Celebrity News

Hip-Hop and Rap

 New York (CNN)  -- Rapper Lil Wayne will go directly to jail after he is sentenced by a Manhattan judge Tuesday afternoon for a gun conviction, according to a person familiar with the case. Dwayne Carter, as he is known legally, pleaded guilty to felony gun charges in a deal with prosecutors October 2009. He is expected to get a one-year prison sentence. His sentencing was delayed three weeks so he could get some dental work done, including removal of his diamond-studded braces. The person familiar with the case would not confirm where Wayne would serve his sentence. The plea agreement was a result of the rapper's 2007 arrest outside New York's Beacon Theater. According to police, Wayne had a .40-caliber pistol on his tour bus. &quot;It's not his gun, they know whose gun it is,&quot; Wayne's attorney, Stacey Richman, said after a hearing last month. In an unrelated case, Wayne also faces felony drug possession and weapons charges in the state of Arizona. Lil Wayne is a multiplatinum-selling and Grammy-winning rap artist. His hits include &quot;The Block is Hot&quot; and &quot;Lollipop,&quot; and his album &quot;Tha Carter III&quot; was the top-selling disc of 2008. His latest album, &quot;Rebirth,&quot; was released last month.CNN's Jennifer Rizzo contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Justice
	
	
		
Police believe they have found remains of missing 10-year-old girl


Writings reveal mind of next man to be tried in Connecticut killings


Pennsylvania game warden killed after stopping vehicle


	

  













		





