                   Survivor buried 4 weeks?STORY HIGHLIGHTSDoctors: Man, 28, may have been trapped in rubble for nearly four weeksFamily tells medical staff that man was found in wreckage of marketMan tells doctors someone brought him water Port-au-Prince, Haiti (CNN) -- A man pulled alive from the rubble of a building in Haiti's capital Monday may have been trapped since the January 12 quake that leveled much of the city, doctors reported. The 28-year-old man, identified as Evan Muncie, was found in the wreckage of a market where he sold rice, his family told staff at a University of Miami field hospital. He suffered from extreme dehydration and malnutrition, but did not appear to have significant crushing injuries, the doctors said.  &quot;He was emaciated. He hadn't had anything in quite some time. He had open wounds that were festering on both of his feet,&quot; said Dr. Mike Connelly, of the university's Project Medishare.  The people who brought him to the hospital said they found the man while digging out the marketplace, Connelly said. iReporter Michael Andrew brought Muncie's story to light while working with the 82nd Canadian Naval unit. Read Andrew's account of the discovery  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Cooper: 'misery' still present

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Haiti

Earthquakes

Port-au-Prince


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



The man told doctors that someone was bringing him water while he was trapped, but doctors told CNN that he sounded confused and at times appeared to believe he was still under the rubble. Connelly said the man must have had some water during the past month to have survived, but Connelly wasn't sure how he would have had access to it. &quot;Initially, I'm sure he had his senses with him, so maybe he was able to find some kind of resources,&quot; Connelly told CNN. The discovery came nearly a month after the magnitude-7.0 earthquake that devastated Port-au-Prince on January 12. More than 200,000 deaths have been blamed on the quake.  Haiti's government declared search-and-rescue efforts over on January 23, but survivors still were being unearthed as late as January 27.CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta contributed to this report. 


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Lawyer: Americans jailed in Haiti had Dominican OK 


Attorney for Americans held in Haiti quits 


Dominican Republic copter crash kills 2 Americans on Haiti mission 

  More World
	
	
		
Source: Hunt for bin Laden missed 'real opportunity'


Party members fear chances of Suu Kyi's release are dim


Indonesia Mount Merapi volcano erupts again Friday


	

  



















		





