                   Remains of missing teen foundSTORY HIGHLIGHTSRemains of Amber DuBois, 14 when she disappeared last year, found in San Diego CountyPolice said last week they're investigating John Albert Gardner IIIGardner is charged with murder in disappearance of a different teen, Chelsea KingDuBois was last seen walking alone to school on February 13, 2009 (CNN) -- The remains of Amber DuBois, a 14-year-old San Diego, California-area girl who was missing for more than a year, have been found, police said Sunday. Human skeletal remains found early Saturday in Pala -- a rural, rugged  area in northern San Diego County, California -- have been positively identified as those of DuBois, Police Chief Jim Maher of Escondido, California, said at a news conference. DuBois was last seen walking alone to school on February 13, 2009. Her family lives in Escondido, a suburb of San Diego. Maher did not take questions at the brief news conference, saying the  investigation of DuBois' death is ongoing. &quot;Any detail, no matter how slight, would be inappropriate at this time,&quot; he said. The investigation is being handled by Escondido police, the San Diego County Sheriff's Department, and the FBI. Amber DuBois' parents, who police said were notified of their daughter's found remains Saturday, attended the press conference. &quot;We'd like to thank everybody involved in the search for Amber... and above all, our huge volunteer corps,&quot; her father, Moe DuBois, said. &quot;They are the most dedicated people you can ever imagine.&quot; &quot;Without them we cannot have done anything,&quot; he said. Authorities said last week they were investigating John Albert Gardner III, who pleaded not guilty Wednesday to raping and murdering Chelsea King -- another San Diego-area teen -- to determine whether he was connected to Amber DuBois' disappearance. &quot;We have been working closely with San Diego Sheriff's Office, and our investigators are working with theirs in case there is a connection,&quot; Lt. Robert Benton with the Escondido Police Department said last week. &quot;We are involved in the daily briefings on the King investigation.&quot; Amber DuBois' father attended Gardner's arraignment on Wednesday. Maher did not mention any suspects during his brief news conference Sunday.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	




We recommend
Family fears Chelsea King suspect involved in daughter's disappearance 


Man charged with killing Chelsea King pleads not guilty  


Missing teen's family pushes on after closing volunteer center 

  More Justice
	
	
		
Police believe they have found remains of missing 10-year-old girl


Writings reveal mind of next man to be tried in Connecticut killings


Pennsylvania game warden killed after stopping vehicle


	

  













		





