                   Karadzic trial resumesSTORY HIGHLIGHTSRadovan Karadzic faces 11 counts of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanityCharges stem partly from 1995 mass killing of Muslim men in Bosnian town of SrebrenicaKaradzic, the Bosnian Serb president at the time, accused of responsibility for the massacreKaradzic faces life in prison if convicted. The court cannot impose the death penalty (CNN) -- The genocide trial of Radovan Karadzic resumed Monday after a four-month postponement, with the former Bosnian Serb leader presenting his opening statements. Karadzic is blamed for the worst massacre in Europe since World War II. He has denied the charges. He has defended himself since the trial began in October, but boycotted the proceedings, saying he needed more time to prepare. The following month, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia appointed a lawyer for Karadzic and postponed the trial until March to allow the defense time to prepare. Karadzic is being allowed to represent himself again, with the provision that the standby counsel would take over if he again refused to attend court. He faces 11 counts of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The charges stem partly from the killing of more than 7,000 Muslim men and boys in the Bosnian town of Srebrenica in 1995.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Dysfunction since Dayton

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Killings of Srebrenica

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: One soldier's tale

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					  Radovan Karadzic Timeline

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Radovan Karadzic

Srebrenica

International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia

Yugoslavia


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb president at the time, is accused of responsibility for the massacre. It became an emblem for the dissolution of Yugoslavia -- once a multi-ethnic state of Serbs, Croats and Muslims -- into six countries during a bloody and brutal conflict in the early 1990s. The trial began more than a year after Karadzic was captured in Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. He had been on the run for more than 13 years and was living in disguise in Belgrade, practicing alternative medicine at a clinic. Karadzic faces life in prison if convicted. The court cannot impose the death penalty. The 1992-95 Bosnian conflict was the longest of the wars spawned by the breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. Backed by the government of then-Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, Bosnian Serb forces seized control of more than half the country and launched a campaign against the Muslim and Croat populations. Karadzic was removed from power in 1995, when the Dayton Accord that ended the Bosnian war barred anyone accused of war crimes from holding office. Milosevic died in 2006 while on trial at The Hague.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  



















		





