                        The incident reportedly happened on a regional airline in Canada. A spokeswoman confirms that a passenger was deplaned. STORY HIGHLIGHTSRegional airline in Canada reportedly kicked man off flight because of his body odorAnother passenger described the smell as &quot;brutal,&quot; newspaper reportsAirline spokeswoman confirms that a passenger was &quot;deplaned&quot; from the flightShe could not say why the person was asked to leave because of privacy reasons (CNN) -- Air travelers already have to deal with unruly passengers, excessively talkative ones and many other types who make flying miserable.  But a new low may just have been reached for weary road warriors: The overwhelmingly smelly passenger. A man on Jazz Air, a regional airline in Canada that also serves U.S. cities, was reportedly kicked off a plane earlier this month because of his strong body odor. &quot;People were just mumbling and staring at him,&quot; said a woman who sat near the man, according to The Guardian, a newspaper in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, where the flight originated on February 6. It was a very uncomfortable situation, she added. Another passenger described the smell as &quot;brutal.&quot;  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Too smelly to fly?

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Air Travel


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



The man was an American visiting Prince Edward Island, the CBC reported.  Jazz Air spokeswoman Manon Stuart confirmed that a passenger was &quot;deplaned&quot; from the flight, but she could not provide specific information about the person involved or the reason why he was asked to leave because of privacy issues. &quot;As an airline, the safety and comfort of our passengers and crew are our top priorities. Therefore, any situation that compromises either their safety or comfort is taken seriously, and in such circumstances, the crew will act in the best interest of the majority of our passengers,&quot; Stuart said. &quot;It's important to understand that our crew members make every effort to resolve a situation before it becomes an issue. Unfortunately, in some circumstances, it may become necessary for our crew to remove passengers.&quot; The airline, like most air carriers, doesn't have a specific policy covering body odor, Stuart said.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Travel
	
	
		
Heavy snow snarls airports, roads in Europe


No flight to catch: A glimpse at airport employees, culture


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


	  













		





