 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	






	
By Jimmy Traina
Archive

	








Bethany In Bodypaint







Bethany Dempsey :: Getty Images


Get all previous editions of Hot Clicks here. Follow Jimmy Traina on Twitter here. Become a fan of Hot Clicks on Facebook here. E-mail a comment, question or link  here.

Scott H. from Philadelphia, says, "The U.S. [soccer team] plays in an international friendly versus the Netherlands in Amsterdam today. Clint Dempsey is injured, but the game is still relevant and his wife, Bethany, is still awesome to look at!" Hot Clicks has already featured soccer WAGs Melissa Satta and Abbey Clancy, so it only seems right to highlight Bethany.













Speaking Of SI Swimsuit Models... 

A bunch of flight attendants are offended by a Brooklyn Decker photo that's plastered on one of AirTran Airways planes. The weird thing is that the picture is very tame and is nothing like, oh, say, this.










Blown Away

Own goals in soccer are unusual enough, but when it's scored by the wind it's extra special. 












Latest On LeBron




LeBron James


As you probably know by now, LeBron James has filed the paperwork so he can wear No. 6 next year. Apparently, Knicks fans can now order their No. 6 James jerseys. If you're bold enough to get this jersey before he even signs with New York, drop me an e-mail. Meanwhile, Emmet Ryan, of Dublin, Ireland, lets us know that the New Jersey Nets have resorted to giving their fans LeBron jerseys tonight. As for on-the-court matters, this alley-oop dunk by King James a couple of nights ago didn't count, but is worth checking out.









Oh, So That's What He Means

If you follow Ozzie Guillen on Twitter (and you should), this Ozzie Translator will come in handy.











Ridiculous Product Of The Day

Marshall White, of Dallas, alerts us to Handerpants.






















Sports Video Of The Day

The voice dubbing at the end is a little shaky, but this baseball free agents PSA still made me laugh.





</embed>










Music Video Of The Day



I lied. This really isn't a music video. It's a video of a guy's tooth falling out while he's singing.




</embed>Singer Loses Tooth While Singing - Watch more Funny Videos













Presidents Video Of The Day

Barack Obama, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush., Bill Clinton, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter have a get-together.







</embed>Funny or Die's Presidential Reunion from Will Ferrell












	
		Have A Link, Comment or Question?
		






Your name:



Your E-mail Address:



Your Hometown:



Comment, Question, Link:



	&nbsp;
	
		
	



		
	


 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	




 </td> 








	More from SI.com
	
		Video
		
			



Caps beat Sens, end skid



Avs win 6th straight


		
		
	
 
		Swimsuit
		
			
Anna Trebunskaya
Chelsie Hightower
Cheryl Burke
Edyta Sliwinska
Ana Ivanovic
Anne V
Bar Refaeli
Brooklyn Decker
Christine Teigen
Cintia Dicker
Damaris Lewis
Daniella Sarahyba
Dominique Piek
Esti Ginzburg
Genevieve Morton
Hilary Rhoda
Irina Shayk
Jessica Gomes
Jessica White
Julie Henderson
Julie Ordon
Sonia Dara
Zoe Duchesne
Abbey Clancy
Bethany Dempsey
Melissa Satta
Sarah Brandner
Clair Bidez
Hannah Teter
Lacy Schnoor
Lindsey Vonn

			
		
	
	
		SI Photos
		
			



Breakout Athletes of 2010



Top 30 Hockey Names of All Time



Drew Brees by the Numbers


			
		
	
  
		Truth &amp; Rumors
		
			

Time to ship Mason to minors?


Terps QB upset with Leach rumblings?


Rays owner discouraged by exodus


			
		
		

</tr>