                         Kim Kardashian was on a flight when she tweeted to her 3 million followers that she was next to an air marshal. STORY HIGHLIGHTSKim Kardashian said man was &quot;honest&quot; when she asked whether he was an air marshalThe reality television star was on a flight to Los Angeles, California, when she tweetedTSA does not discuss how federal air marshals operate on an aircraft, spokesman saysPresident Obama ordered more air marshals on flights after a botched Christmas Day attack
RELATED TOPICS


Air Travel

Transportation Security Administration

Kim Kardashian

 (CNN) -- Federal air marshals are supposed to blend in with passengers on planes, but an alleged run-in with a Twitter-happy celebrity is highlighting how technology could blow their cover in an instant. It started when reality television star Kim Kardashian was on a flight to Los Angeles, California, earlier this week and became intrigued by her neighbor.  So she logged on to Twitter while in the air to share her impressions. &quot;I'm on the airplane...love wifi! I am sitting next to an Air Marshall [sic]! Jim the air marshall [sic] makes me feel safe!&quot; Kardashian wrote.  The message went out to the more than 3 million people who follow her on Twitter. About an hour later -- faced with questions from her followers about how she knew his identity -- Kardashian explained that she figured out who the man was because she was curious and simply inquired. &quot;Air Marshall's [sic] are supposed to keep their identity concealed. He did! I am just a private eye &amp; assumed, so I asked him &amp; he was honest!&quot; Kardashian later wrote, adding &quot;OK I hope I don't get in trouble.&quot; Marquee Blog: More celebrity tweets from the sky The incident has many people wondering whether air marshals would tell a passenger who they are when simply asked. A spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration called the situation &quot;pretty interesting&quot; but declined to say whether air marshals would reveal their identity when approached by a curious seat mate. &quot;There are thousands of flights every day and thousands of air marshals covering those flights every day, and each situation is unique,&quot; said Nelson Minerly, adding that the TSA does not discuss how federal air marshals operate on an aircraft. Minerly declined to say whether the man sitting next to Kardashian was an air marshal, and he said he did not know whether the TSA was looking into the incident. He said he could not speak to whether the agency was concerned about someone tweeting about sitting next to an air marshal while in flight. Phone calls to Kardashian's publicist seeking comment about the incident were not returned. Last month, President Obama said he ordered more air marshals on flights after a botched Christmas Day airline terrorist attack in which a man tried to blow up a plane preparing to land in Detroit, Michigan. The number of air marshals is classified. The program was set up in 1970, after a rash of airline hijackings, and it was expanded significantly after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
Smelly passenger kicked off flight 


Airlines grapple with fat flier issue 


Latest Travel news 

  More Travel
	
	
		
Heavy snow snarls airports, roads in Europe


No flight to catch: A glimpse at airport employees, culture


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


	  













		





