                       Charlie Sheen faces charges of second-degree assault, menacing and criminal mischief. STORY HIGHLIGHTSColorado officials request check after Sheen's Christmas arrestActor was arrested on a domestic violence chargeSheen has twin boys who will have first birthday in March Los Angeles, California (CNN) -- Charlie Sheen's wife pulled out of a Malibu, California rehab center after a &quot;major breach of her privacy,&quot; her lawyer told CNN Monday. Brooke Mueller immediately checked into &quot;a private, secure facility&quot; to continue her substance abuse rehab so she can be &quot;the best mother&quot; to her children, attorney Yale Galanter said. Separately, a Los Angeles county social worker visited Sheen's home Sunday to check on his children, Sheen's publicist said. &quot;The visit from DCFS was routine and procedural,&quot; publicist Stan Rosenfield said. The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services was asked by Pitkin County, Colorado, child protection officials to check on the family as part of a follow up to Sheen's Christmas Day arrest in Aspen, Colorado, on a domestic violence charge, Rosenfield said. Agency officials declined to confirm or comment on the visit because of privacy laws.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Sheen's wife in rehab

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Charlie Sheen

Television

Domestic Violence


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Mueller's lawyer said he was planning a lawsuit against the Canyon -- the rehab center -- after confidential details of her treatment there were given to journalists over the weekend. &quot;I am going to make them pay like you can't believe for screwing over my client,&quot; Galanter said. &quot;You can quote me on that.&quot; A call to the Canyon by CNN was not immediately returned. Mueller, 32, voluntarily entered rehab in the wake of the Christmas Day incident with Sheen, Galanter said. Aspen police charged Sheen, 44, with felony second-degree assault, felony menacing and a misdemeanor charge of criminal mischief. He was booked under his birth name, Carlos Irwin Estevez. Sheen and Mueller married in 2008. Their twin sons -- Max and Bob -- will have their first birthday next month.CNN's Brittany Kaplan contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Andrew Morton to write book about William, Kate's wedding


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


Box office: "Tron: Legacy" races to top with $43.6 million


	

  













		





