 
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


             Tracy McGrady was sent to New York in a three-team, nine-player trade.Bill Baptist/NBAE via Getty Images     
  The NBA trading deadline is 3 p.m. ET Thursday. Refresh this page for late-breaking news from the trade market. Thursday, 4:34 p.m. -- Gooden likely to stay in L.A.    Recently acquired Clippers forward Drew Gooden is likely to remain a Clipper, an NBA source told SI.com. Gooden, who has bounced from Dallas to Washington to L.A. in separate deals this week, won't seek a buyout from Los Angeles. According to a source, Gooden, who had sought a buyout from Washington, has had productive conversations with Clippers management -- including GM Mike Dunleavy -- that have convinced him that finishing the season in L.A. is in his best interest. -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 3:53 p.m. -- Wiz trade McGuire    The Washington Wizards traded Dominic McGuire to Sacramento for a future second-round pick and cash considerations, an NBA source told SI.com. -- Chris Mannix  Thursday, 3:33 p.m. -- Utah sends Brewer to Memphis    The Memphis Grizzlies have acquired Ronnie Brewer from the Utah Jazz for a protected first round pick, according to two league sources.  -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 2:58 p.m. -- Heat pursuing Boozer    The Heat are working hard to strike a late deal for Jazz forward Carlos Boozer, a league source told SI.com.  -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 2:48 p.m. -- Bobcats get Bulls' Thomas    The Bobcats have acquired Bulls forward Tyrus Thomas for Acie Law, Flip Murray and a first-round draft pick, sources told SI.com.     The Bobcats have been seeking a power forward for the last several days as their frontcourt has been ravaged by injuries. -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 2:40 p.m. -- Robinson sent to Boston    The Celtics have acquired Nate Robinson and rookie Marcus Landry from New York in exchange for Eddie House, J.R. Giddens and Bill Walker, league sources told SI.com.  -- Ian Thomsen Thursday, 2:15 p.m. -- Bucks get Salmons from Bulls    The Bucks acquired guard John Salmons from Chicago on Thursday and sent the expiring contracts of forwards Hakim Warrick and Joe Alexander to the Bulls, who are looking to make a move in free agency this offseason.      Salmons is scheduled to make $5.8 million next season if he doesn't opt out of his contract.      The Bucks also obtained the Bulls' second-round picks in 2011 and 2012, along with the option to switch first-round picks in the 2010 draft -- provided that Chicago's pick isn't in the top 10. -- AP Thursday, 1:45 p.m. -- Bucks send Meeks to Philly    The Bucks have agreed to send Jodie Meeks and Francisco Elson to Philadelphia for Primoz Brezec and Royal Ivey, a high-ranking league source told SI.com. -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 1:21 p.m. -- McGrady now a Knick    The Knicks acquired Tracy McGrady in a three-way trade with the Rockets and Kings.     The Knicks also received guard Sergio Rodriguez.     The Rockets get Kevin Martin and forward Hilton Armstrong from Sacramento, and Jordan Hill, Jared Jeffries and draft considerations in 2011 and 2012 from New York.     The Kings acquired New York guard Larry Hughes and Houston forwards Carl Landry and Joey Dorsey. -- Ian Thomsen Thursday, 12:26 p.m. -- Ray Allen likely to stay with C's    Two rival executives told SI.com that it was &quot;highly unlikely&quot; Boston would move Ray Allen before the deadline.     One exec said Boston was peddling Allen as late as Wednesday night but did not field any offers to their liking. Allen is attractive to cost cutting teams because he is making $19.8 million in the final year of his contract. -- Chris Mannix Thursday, 11:45 a.m. -- Suns fielding calls for Stoudemire    While Amar'e Stoudemire has been told by Suns owner Robert Sarver that he is unlikely to be traded before the deadline, that hasn't stopped teams from calling. According to a Suns source, Phoenix has been receiving &quot;a lot&quot; of calls about Stoudemire's availability.     The source cautions that, so far, none of the offers have moved the Suns off their current position that keeping Stoudemire is their best play for the rest of the season. Still, it does not come as a surprise to the rest of the league that the Suns would be sifting through offers today. One rival executive suggested that any team with an expiring contract and a draft pick would be calling the Suns, in the hopes that a desperate Phoenix team would accept a lesser deal that returns some value rather than lose him for nothing in the offseason.     Among Stoudemire's suitors, Miami remains the most active. The Heat, who have been frantically searching for a roster upgrade over the last few days, are not believed to have included prized prospect Michael Beasley in any offer for Stoudemire yet. -- Chris Mannix Wednesday, 10:34 p.m. -- Stoudemire probably staying put    Now that Antawn Jamison has been dealt to the Cavs, it seems highly probable that Amar'e Stoudemire is going to remain with Phoenix, one NBA source said.     Though Miami has been involved in discussions with Suns general manager Steve Kerr about acquiring Stoudemire, the source said the Heat are concerned that Stoudemire may inhibit Miami's chance of acquiring free agents this summer.     Stoudemire has one year remaining on his contract for almost $18 million, but he has the ability to opt out of the contract. The source said that Miami is concerned that if Stoudemire opts to play out his contract and then become a free agent in the summer of 2011, it will impede Miami's chances of acquiring a top-notch free agent in this summer's bonanza.     The player the Heat are considering sending to Phoenix is Jermaine O'Neal, the source said, but O'Neal's $23 million contract expires after this season and that is where the Heat are going to get most of their money to pursue a free agent like Toronto's Chris Bosh.     Meanwhile, Boston seems to have addressed its need for bench scoring with the acquisition of Nate Robinson, but the Lakers, according to a rival executive, continue to scour the market for more bench help. Bulls combo guard Kirk Hinrich was believed to be a top target for the Lakers, but L.A. does not have the assets Chicago would want in a deal. Irrespective of a McGrady deal, the Knicks are having conversations with the Bulls about a potential Al Harrington-Tyrus Thomas swap. -- Frank Hughes Wednesday, 10:50 p.m. -- Knicks send big man Milicic to T-Wolves    The Knicks traded Darko Milicic on Wednesday to the Timberwolves, perhaps the former No. 2 overall pick's final stop before he returns to Europe. The Timberwolves sent Brian Cardinal to New York and received cash considerations along with Milicic, who was unhappy with the Knicks and would have been waived had they not found a deal for him. -- AP Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. -- Cavs acquire Jamison             Antawn Jamison was sent to the Cavaliers in a three-time deal Wednesday.Ned Dishman/NBAE/Getty Images   The Cavaliers acquired Wizards forward Antawn Jamison in a six-player, three-team trade on Wednesday, SI.com has confirmed.     Washington will receive Cleveland center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, a first-round draft pick and the draft rights to Emil Preldzic. The Wizards also will get Brian Skinner and Al Thornton from the Los Angeles Clippers.     In addition to Jamison, the Cavs will get point guard Sebastian Telfair from L.A., while Wizards will send Drew Gooden to the Clippers. -- Ian Thomsen Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. -- Spurs shopping Jefferson    Displeased with the way he has fit into their system, the Spurs are attempting to trade forward Richard Jefferson just days before the trade deadline, multiple league sources have confirmed.     However, because of Jefferson's lack of production this season, as well as his $14.2 million salary, it does not seem likely the Spurs are going to find any takers. &quot;They're trying, but there may not be a market for his contract,&quot; one Eastern Conference executive told SI.com.     Jefferson has one year and $15.2 million remaining after this season.     The calls being placed by Spurs general manager R.C. Buford are a stark admittance that he made a mistake when trading Bruce Bowen, Kurt Thomas and Fabricio Oberto to the Bucks for Jefferson, envisioning him as yet another talented scoring option to complement Tim Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili.     Instead, the 29-year-old Jefferson is having the worst season since his rookie year, averaging 12.2 points, 3.6 rebounds and 2.1 assists as he has struggled to fit in with the Spurs' primary trio.     Perhaps even more intriguing is whether Buford's intentions with Jefferson is a sign that he thinks the Spurs in their current form cannot win a title. The Spurs are essentially tied with the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Phoenix Suns for the fifth seed in the Western Conference but have lost eight of their past 14 games. -- Frank Hughes 