                         In "A Prophet," Tahar Rahim plays 19-year-old French North African Malik, who learns to kill or be killed in prison. STORY HIGHLIGHTS &quot;A Prophet&quot; shows the rise of a young gangster in France  Film is up for a best foreign language film Oscar  CNN.com's Tom Charity says it's terrific, a great character study and gangster film 
RELATED TOPICS


Movies

France

 (CNN) -- The favorite to pick up the Academy Award for best foreign language film this year, Jacques Audiard's gripping crime epic &quot;A Prophet&quot; is the kind of movie that never goes out of style.  It's a tough-minded, clear-eyed chronicle of a petty criminal's rise to power -- the classic gangster film scenario, only this saga plays out within a French high-security prison. Illiterate 19-year-old French North African Malik (Tahar Rahim) enters the prison with little to say for himself but six years stretching before him. For better or worse he's soon singled out by Corsican crime boss Cesar Luciani (snowy-haired Nils Arestrup) and pressed to assassinate another Arab prisoner, a stool pigeon who takes a fancy to the young man. Malik resists, but Cesar's power extends right across the prison, inmates, guards and all. It's kill or be killed.  In the film's first grim life lesson, Malik teaches himself how to conceal a razor blade in his smile. The murder is a blood-splattered fiasco, but Cesar ensures that his man gets off with no questions asked, and there's a job in it for him, too. The only Arab in the Corsican's gang, Malik is trusted with the most menial tasks -- delivering the coffee, cleaning -- but at least he's a lackey with connections and the privilege to move around the prison with relative ease.  He may not know it, but he's on his way... A big hit on home turf and acclaimed on the festival circuit, &quot;A Prophet&quot; won the Grand Prix at Cannes, in effect the silver medal to the Palme d'Or picked up by Michael Haneke's &quot;The White Ribbon&quot; (which is also in contention for the Oscar). Based on a story by Abdel Raouf Dafri, adapted by the director and Thomas Bidegain, the film at first seems more conventional than Jacques Audiard's offbeat thrillers &quot;The Beat That My Heart Skipped&quot; and &quot;Read My Lips,&quot; and unlike Haneke's head-scratcher it's not likely to ignite debates about who did what to whom and why. But it's fluid and strange enough to incorporate the ghost of Malik's first (but far from only) victim, a supernatural guidance counselor who coaches him through an unsentimental education. Except for his immigrant status, Malik is a far cry from the traditional upwardly mobile gangster. Slender and pensive, Tahar Rahim doesn't give us a thug but a sensitive and intelligent individual picking up the skills he needs to survive and thrive. He's a bit like the character Jim played by Christian Bale in J.G. Ballard's autobiographical &quot;Empire of the Sun,&quot; with Cesar as the cynical King Rat.  Winning Cesar's respect, if not quite his trust, Malik gradually becomes his most important lieutenant, trafficking drugs on day-release, and always extending his sphere of contacts. In the self-improvement stakes he would be a model prisoner -- he even learns Corsican -- if it weren't for all the bodies he leaves in his wake. Prison provides Audiard with a handy social microcosm: We see the way the institution has been rigged and corrupted by money, violence and power; the endemic racism of the place; and how Malik is forced to play the game or perish. What does all this tell us about France? That the system is working great, if you want it to produce leaner, meaner gangsters. That the demographics are changing and the base of power will shift, too. That the winners in the next century will be those who can cross betwixt and between the old tribal and ethnic identities. All that and one other thing: that French cinema is still capable of producing movies as compelling and penetrating as anything coming out of Hollywood. &quot;A Prophet&quot; is the proof, and seeing is believing. &quot;A Prophet&quot; is rated R and runs 150 minutes. For Entertainment Weekly's review, click here.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Entertainment
	
	
		
Andrew Morton to write book about William, Kate's wedding


Report: Queen of pop given royal treatment on Virgin Atlantic flight


Box office: "Tron: Legacy" races to top with $43.6 million


	

  













		





