                         President Obama will lay out a political plan for health care reform on Wednesday, say Democratic sources. STORY HIGHLIGHTSObama expected to advocate &quot;up or down vote&quot; in Congress, White House press secretaryEmerging consensus is for House to pass Senate bill and send it to ObamaPackage of changes would then be passed in both chambers under reconciliation rulesRemains unclear which health care provisions can be approved under reconciliation Washington (CNN) -- President Obama is likely to lay out a political road map Wednesday for passage of sweeping health care legislation, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said Monday. Gibbs said the president will talk about &quot;the way forward&quot; to pass a bill. Among other things, Obama is expected to advocate for an &quot;up or down vote&quot; in Congress if necessary, Gibbs said. Multiple Democratic sources told CNN that the emerging consensus plan is for the House of Representatives to pass the Senate bill and send it to Obama. A package of changes that mirror the president's plan would then be passed through both chambers under reconciliation rules, which require only 51 votes in the Senate. Democrats lost their 60-vote, filibuster-proof Senate supermajority in January, when GOP Sen. Scott Brown won the Massachusetts Senate seat previously held by the late Sen. Ted Kennedy, a Democrat.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Pelosi backing Obama plan?

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Health care moving forward?

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Health care in plain English

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Fight for health care reform

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Not enough money for health care

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


Health Care Reform

Health Care Policy

Barack Obama


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Observers note, however, that it remains unclear exactly which health care provisions can be approved under reconciliation, which is reserved for legislation pertaining to the budget. Republicans have angrily criticized the Democrats' potential use of reconciliation, arguing the maneuver was never intended to be used for major policy overhauls along the lines of the health care bill. Obama's midweek remarks will also deal with the &quot;substance&quot; of health care reform, Gibbs said. White House aides say the president's speech will largely mirror the nearly $1 trillion compromise package Obama laid out one week ago. It may, however, be scaled back in some aspects, they said.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Politics
	
	
		
Senate reviews START treaty behind closed doors


Bloomberg urges passage of 9/11 health bill


The real threat to health care reform


	

  













		





