                         Don't let your time go down the drain when cleaning bathroom. STORY HIGHLIGHTSNobody likes cleaning the bathroom, so here's a 5-minute cleaning solutionUse disinfecting wipes, microfiber cloth and a cold remedy as secret weaponsPut towels outside door, throw out soaps bits; then wipe surfaces, cobwebs etcUse several of the wipes to clean toilet, sink; then sweep floor
RELATED TOPICS


Housework and Homemaking

 (RealSimple.com) -- Here's how you can clean your bathroom ten times better in five minutes or less. Secret weapons Clorox Disinfecting Wipes --disposable and bleach-free, they kill most germs and don't leave streaks on chrome. Method Window &amp; Glass microfiber cloth --reusable and lint-free.  Alka-Seltzer Plus Orange Zest cold formula (Yes, you read that right.) The surprising alter ego of these effervescent citrus tablets? Bowl freshener.  Minute 1 Drop two Alka-Seltzer tablets into the toilet bowl and let the bubbles do their magic.  Toss used towels in a pile outside the door; stash odds and ends (brushes, hair dryer) in drawers or a pretty basket.  Get rid of melty soap bars and lingering chips. RealSimple.com: 18 time-saving tips Minute 2 With a damp microfiber cloth, swipe cobwebs from ceiling corners (stick the cloth on the end of a broom to reach) and dust door frames, tile ledges, moldings, shelves, framed art, and sills. Rinse and wring. Do the light switch and the soap dish with a disinfecting wipe. RealSimple.com: Surprising household cleaners Minute 3 Spray mirrors with glass cleaner and rub in circles with the cloth.  Then run a wipe over the vanity and the sink to pick up rogue hairs, powder, and toothpaste. (Clorox brand is safe for most hard surfaces, including marble.) Grab a new wipe for the faucet handles, the wall behind the faucet, and any light fixtures. RealSimple.com: 9 problem-solving products Minute 4 With a fresh wipe, clean the top of the toilet tank, the flusher handle, and the lid. Use a new wipe for the top and the bottom of the seat and the lip of the bowl -- in that order.  Take one more wipe and do the base of the toilet and the floor around it.  Next, swish water around the inside of the bowl with a toilet brush and flush.  Using (you guessed it) another wipe, clean the vents and the baseboards. Minute 5 Move the wastebasket to just outside the door.  Set out clean hand towels and a roll of toilet paper.  With a couple of wipes, tackle the floor. Clean dust and hair from every corner, starting with the corner farthest from the door and backing out. Empty the trash and you're done.Get a FREE TRIAL issue of Real Simple - CLICK HERE!

Copyright &copy; 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
14 shortcuts for everyday tasks Real Simple


101 new uses for everyday things Real Simple


Surprising uses for your dishwasher Real Simple

  More Living
	
	
		
New study finds baby boomers are in a funk


10 surprising books for holiday reading


Pieces of sports history come with a price


	

  













		





