                    Terror, heroism at schoolSTORY HIGHLIGHTSBruco Strongeagle Eastwood, 32, arrested in shootings of two studentsGunfire begins as middle school classes end for the day Math teacher/coach tackles suspect, confiscates gun before police arriveIncident was in same area of Colorado as 1999 Columbine rampage 
RELATED TOPICS


Colorado

School Shootings

Columbine High School

 (CNN) -- The man suspected of shooting two students at a Littleton, Colorado, middle school was identified as 32-year-old Bruco Strongeagle Eastwood, authorities said Wednesday. Eastwood was arrested after the incident Tuesday at Deer Creek Middle School and is scheduled to appear in court Wednesday morning, according to the Jefferson County Sheriff's Office. He is facing two counts of attempted first-degree murder, the sheriff's office said. He is accused of shooting two students as classes were letting out at 3:15 p.m. Tuesday. David Benke, a 6-foot-5 former college basketball player who is a math teacher and track coach, tackled the suspected gunman as he was preparing to fire again, CNN affiliate KMGH reported. &quot;[The shooter] was trying to rack another round,&quot; Benke told the station. &quot;I knew he couldn't get another round in before I got to him, so I grabbed him.&quot; A parent who saw the incident told KMGH that the gunman kept mumbling, &quot;I'm fighting for freedom. I'm fighting for freedom,&quot; as he was being subdued. The students, a boy and a girl, were taken to Littleton Hospital with non-life-threatening injuries, a sheriff's office spokeswoman said. Tuesday's shooting occurred in the same area as one of the deadliest school shootings in U.S. history, the 1999 killing of 12 students and a teacher at Columbine High School. The two gunmen in that incident, both Columbine students, then turned their guns on themselves.CNN's Andy Rose contributed to this report.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

	
			
  More Justice
	
	
		
Man who wrote 'how-to' for pedophiles arrested


Murder victims summed up with a label


Judge in Knox appeal allows new evidence reviews, witnesses


	

  













		





