                                       South Korean marines search the shoreline for possible survivors and bodies from the sunken warship. STORY HIGHLIGHTSSouth Korea mourns navy diver who died during rescue attempts on sunken Navy shipSouth Korean president demands transparent investigation into sinking of corvette Cheonan 58 seamen were rescued soon after blast; 46 remain missingMilitary officials say explosion tore a hole in the rear of ship; cause of the blast not known Seoul, South Korea (CNN) -- South Korean President Lee Myung-bak demanded a transparent investigation into the sinking of the corvette Cheonan Thursday, while the nation mourned a hero as the navy diver who died during rescue attempts on the wreck was memorialized. The Cheonan sank in dangerous waters off North Korea Friday, following an as-yet unexplained explosion. Fifty-eight men were rescued; 46 remain missing. &quot;As it is a very sensitive and important question, (the government) will find the cause through a thorough and scientific investigation,&quot; Lee said to officials, a presidential official told CNN. Lee added that South Korea's &quot;international credibility&quot; rested on a transparent inquiry into the tragedy. In 20-minute phone call with Lee the same day, U.S. President Barack Obama offered technical assistance, the official added.  



	
	
	
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
			
				
				
			
		
	
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					  Gallery: Search for missing South Korean sailors

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
					
					 
					


	
	


				
			
		
		
				
					
					                                 Video: Search for survivors continues

				

		
			
				
						

						
				
			
		



			
	
			
			
		
			
				
			
		
		
				
					
					  
RELATED TOPICS


South Korea

North Korea

Accidents and Disasters


				

		
			
				
			
		



			
	



Questions have been raised locally by media, politicians and grieving family members over whether the South Korean armed forces have the appropriate equipment for the job, and whether they responded appropriately. Thirteen South Korean ships and two U.S. ships are on the scene, with 207 Korean divers and 15 American divers aboard. Diving operations were halted for a second day Thursday due to rough weather conditions. Navy Chief Master Sergeant Han Joo-ho, 53, died after diving on the wreck Tuesday. Officials including Defense Minister Kim Tae-young and Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Kim Sung-chan visited a memorial altar set up at a naval hospital in his memory; family members of those missing on the Cheonan also attended. Online, thousands have posted messages of condolence. Diver dies in rescue effort near sunken ship  His funeral will be held Saturday. Han, 53, was not ordered to dive on the wreck. &quot;He was a coach at the naval diving school so did not have to be on the diving team,&quot; an official at the Defense Ministry told CNN. &quot;He volunteered.&quot; His son, an active-duty army officer, told local reporters that he had asked his father not to take risks diving on the wreck, but his father, &quot;...used to say he wanted to live with honor.&quot; The Cheonan's stern and bow lie over 6 kilometers (3.7 miles) apart on the seabed. The bow is 25 meters (27 yards) under water, while the stern, where the 46 missing crew members are believed to be, is 45 meters (49 yards) under water.  With currents under water exceeding 5 knots (6 miles per hour) and visibility below one meter (one yard), the wreck is extremely dangerous. Han, one of the Korean navy's most experienced divers, fell unconscious after reportedly exceeding recommended times and depths under water. Two other divers were hospitalized the same day. Both have now been released. It is unclear whether intense public pressure contributed to the divers taking excessive risks. Family members of the missing have consistently criticized the navy for what they consider an inadequate response to the disaster. The media is rife with speculation over what caused it -- theories range from North Korean suicide boats manned by female commandos to an errant mine -- and has been demanding answers. A 130-ton patrol boat sunk in the Yellow Sea after a naval firefight in 2002 took three weeks to raise. The Cheonan, 1,200 tons, is considerably larger, and also in two pieces. The defense ministry source said that it may take a month to raise the wreck.


	














			
	
		
		
			
				
					
						
						Share this on:
					
										
						Mixx
						Facebook
						Twitter
						Digg
						delicious
						reddit
						MySpace
						StumbleUpon
						LinkedIn
					
				
			
		
		
	
			



	


	





FOLLOW THIS TOPIC

We recommend
No signs of life in search of sunken S. Korean ship 


S. Korean ship's section believed found 


Hopes fade for South Korean sailors after sinking 

  More World
	
	
		
Severe weather crowds European airports with frustrated passengers


Iran says it executed 11 with ties to terrorist group


Somali Islamic party joins more hard-line group


	

  



















		





