  
	
	
	
	
	
		
			
			PRINT
		
		
			
			EMAIL
		
		
			
		
		
			
			FACEBOOK
		
		
			
			DIGG
		
		
			
			TWITTER
		
		
			
			RSS
		
		
			SHARE
		
	







 
 


             Korie Lucious' buzzer-beating three lifted Michigan State into the Sweet 16, and despite the loss of Kalin Lucas the Spartans have the talent to keep going.AP    
 

  For true college basketball junkies, March Madness means two things: the games, and the games behind the games.      The first refers to the NCAA tournament. The second refers to the annual coaching carousel that picks up steam around the second week of the tournament.      I'm not one of those who report on every twist and turn of the coaching searches, but I must say it is fun trading gossip with people who think they know things. So I burned up the phone lines the last couple of days to see what I could find out. I'll start you off with my breakdown and predictions of the Sweet 16. Then I'll give you my, ahem, informed speculation as to what you can expect on the coaching front.      As always, in both cases, any similarities between my predictions and the actual course of events is strictly coincidental.  MIDWEST REGION    MICHIGAN STATE VS. NORTHERN IOWA      A lot of people are going with the Panthers based on the absence of Spartans point guard Kalin Lucas, but I'm going to stick with Michigan State for two reasons. First and foremost, they are coached by Tom Izzo. No disrespect to Ben Jacobson or any other coach in America, but nobody gets his players ready to compete and win in the NCAA tournament better than Izzo does. Second, I often find that after Cinderellas break through during the first week of the tournament, they return home to tons of accolades and distractions, which detracts from their preparation for the next game. It's hard picking against the Panthers while The Rok is on fire, but the Spartans are ready to douse him.      Michigan State 65, Northern Iowa 61      TENNESSEE VS. OHIO STATE      There was a very unusual stat in the first half of the Buckeyes' second-round game against Georgia Tech: Evan Turner took 15 shots in the first 20 minutes. That is very unlike him, and unlike Ohio State. This team has excellent offensive balance, and when Jon Diebler and William Buford get open looks they're almost impossible to defend. Turner took just four shots in the second half and Ohio State pulled away. Unlike Ohio U, the Buckeyes have a big man inside (Dallas Lauderdale) who can bang with Wayne Chism. I also don't think Tennessee will fare well against Ohio State's funky 1-3-1 zone.      Ohio State 79, Tennessee 71      REGIONAL FINAL: OHIO STATE VS. MICHIGAN STATE      It's an old-fashioned Big Ten battle, but in this case the absence of Lucas is too much for Michigan State to overcome. Remember, the one time these teams played during the season, the Buckeyes won by seven in East Lansing -- and that was with a healthy Lucas.      Ohio State 70, Michigan State 64  WEST    SYRACUSE VS. BUTLER      If you like smart, fundamental, efficient, team-oriented offensive basketball, this game is for you. Still, I think Butler is going to be a little overwhelmed. The Bulldogs have done well to win 21 straight games, but they didn't do much outside the Horizon League. Butler lost to Minnesota, Clemson and Georgetown on neutral courts, and they fell at UAB by 10 points. Nor is Butler as good an outside shooting team as most people believe.      Syracuse 74, Butler 60      KANSAS STATE VS. XAVIER      The Musketeers are not used to playing teams with a guard tandem that is as good (if not better) than theirs, but that is what they're facing in Kansas State. Xavier's Jordan Crawford will be the best guard in the game, but as a twosome Jacob Pullen and Denis Clemente are more potent than Crawford and Terrell Holloway. Xavier will have more size inside, but Kansas State has more quickness up front and overall toughness up and down the roster.      Kansas State 78, Xavier 75      REGIONAL FINAL: SYRACUSE VS. KANSAS STATE      As Syracuse moves along, it is going to be harder to envision the Orange winning games without Arinze Onuaku. I am going to assume that he will at least be available (albeit limited) for this game, and given the way Andy Rautins and Wesley Johnson are playing, that should be enough.      Syracuse 72, Kansas State 69  EAST    KENTUCKY VS. CORNELL      The Big Red are a great story, but the Wildcats are a great team. I was extremely impressed with the way Cornell shredded Temple and Wisconsin in its half-court offense, but Kentucky is different from those teams in two important ways. First, the Wildcats are much bigger, stronger and quicker up front, which means Cornell center Jeff Foote is going to have a hard time scoring and staying out of foul trouble. Second, Temple and Wisconsin play a slowdown style and don't look to punish you in transition. John Wall, Eric Bledsoe and company are devastating on the break, and they will score too many easy baskets for Cornell to keep up. I really hope I'm wrong, but I don't think it's going to be close.      Kentucky 80, Cornell 63      WEST VIRGINIA VS. WASHINGTON      Have you ever seen an 11 seed make the Sweet 16 and generate so little buzz? The Huskies were very impressive against Marquette and New Mexico last week, and they present a tough matchup for West Virginia, especially now that the Mountaineers have lost their starting point guard, Truck Bryant, to a broken foot. The point position is the Mountaineers' one discernible weakness, and Washington is a quick, aggressive teams that loves to generate steals and score in transition -- much like Missouri, which gave the Mountaineers a run in the second round. West Virginia does a good enough job taking care of the ball that I think their experience, size and toughness will prevail, but I don't expect it to be easy.      West Virginia 75, Washington 73      REGIONAL FINAL: KENTUCKY VS. WEST VIRGINIA      In my original bracket, I picked West Virginia to lose to Kansas in the championship game, but now that the Jayhawks are gone I honestly have a hard time envisioning West Virginia winning the title. And while the Mountaineers struggled against Mizzou, the Wildcats were making Wake Forest look like a jayvee team. The injury to Bryant gives me a lame excuse to change my pick.      Kentucky 76, West Virginia 74  SOUTH       </embed>
   DUKE VS. PURDUE      The Boilermakers are not as good an offensive team as they were with Robbie Hummel, but they are a little quicker and tougher on the defensive end. And point guard Lewis Jackson, who missed the first two-and-a-half months of the season with a foot injury, has quietly played some excellent basketball. (He had nine assists to one turnover in the first round against Siena, and on the season has an assist-to-turnover ratio of better than 3-to-1.) Still, that won't be enough to beat a Duke team that also butters its bread with defense and rebounding. Sometime in early February, a light went on in 7-foot-1 senior center Brian Zoubek's head, and since then he has been the most improved player in college basketball. He and the Plumlee brothers give the Blue Devils much more margin for error than they have had in recent years.      Duke 66, Purdue 60      BAYLOR VS. SAINT MARY'S      The Gaels are going to face the same challenge as Northern Iowa with respect to maintaining their mental edge, but they have a bigger problem -- literally. While Richmond and Villanova had gaping holes in the middle, leaving them defenseless against Omar &quot;Mr.&quot; Samhan, Baylor's front line consists of 6-10 Ekpe Udoh, 6-10 Anthony Jones and 7-foot Josh Lomers, with 6-7 Quincy Acy coming off the bench. That's 20 fouls if you're scoring at home. St. Mary's is a great three-point shooting team and it should get a few looks against Baylor's zone, but the Bears have a sweet guard tandem of their own in Tweety Carter and LaceDarius Dunn.      Baylor 85, St. Mary's 75      REGIONAL FINAL: DUKE VS. BAYLOR      This is a scary matchup for the Blue Devils, especially since the Bears would have a de facto homecourt advantage in Houston. Duke's problem this season has been the fact that it rarely gets all three of its Big Three clicking at the same time. The Blue Devils won't beat Baylor if Jon Scheyer can't make threes, but my sense is that Scheyer and Co. will rise to the occasion on the big stage.        Duke 77, Baylor 74